Dark Queen of Krynn Adventure Journal

Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION                             1
IMPORTANT FEATURES                       2
CHARACTERS AND PARTIES                   2
PLAYER RACES                             2
ABILITY SCORES                           3
CHARACTER CLASSES                        4
ALIGNMENT                                6
OTHER ATTRIBUTES                         7
BUILDING A SUCCESSFUL PARTY              7
COMBAT                                   9
COMBAT MAP                               9
INITIATIVE                               9
COMPUTER CONTROL                         9
COMBAT ABILITY                           9
ATTACKING                                10
COMBAT MOVEMENT                          11
COMBAT STRATEGIES                        11
AFTER COMBAT                             12
MAGIC                                    12
MAGIC USERS                              12
CLERICS                                  13
KNIGHTS AND PALADINS                     14
RANGERS                                  14
TIPS ON MAGIC                            14
MAGICAL TREASURES                        14
CREATURES OF THE DAGONLANCE SAGA         16
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS                       24
JOURNAL ENTRIES                          31
TABLES                                   49


<IMG SRC="DQK_AJ01.GIF">
IMPORTANT FEATURES

CHARACTERS AND PARTIES

You need a party of adventurer Player Characters (PCs) to play THE
DARK QUEEN OF KRYNN. YOU must choose the following for each character:
a race, a class, and an alignment. After you select these, the
computer generates a set of ability scores that define your new
character's natural strengths and weaknesses. To build a party you
must make a mix of characters that have the range of skills needed for
success, and then band them together.

Player Races

There are seven races from which you may construct player characters,
each with different talents and limitations. Tables beginning on page
49 summarize the racial class limitations and ability score modifiers.
The following describes each race and tells which classes are open to
them.

Hill Dwarves are a stubborn and rough race of sturdy workers and
craftsmen.  They are especially resistant to magic and poison. During
combat, dwarves receive bonuses when attacking goblins or hobgoblins,
and are adept at dodging the attacks of ogres and giants. Dwarves can
be fighters, thieves, rangers, clerics of Reorx, or mixed classes.

Mountain Dwarves are somewhat clannish and more refined than their
Hill Dwarf cousins, otherwise they are nearly identical. Mountain
dwarves may be fighters, paladins, thieves, clerics of Reorx, or mixed
classes.

Silvanesti Elves (High Elves) are a tall, arrogant, and long-lived
race. They are nearly immune to sleep and charm spells, and are adept
at finding hidden doors. During combat, elves receive bonuses when
attacking with swords or bows. They cannot be raised from the dead.
Silvanesti elves can be fighters, paladins, magic-users, clerics,
rangers, and mixed classes.

Qualinesti Elves are slightly smaller and friendlier than their
Silvanesti brethren, but they have identical abilities and bonuses.
Qualinesti elves can be fighters, rangers, magic-users, thieves,
clerics and mixed classes.

Half-Elves are hybrids, with many of the virtues of both humans and
elves.  Like their elf ancestors, they are resistant to sleep and
charm spells, and are adept at finding hidden doors. Half-elves can be
fighters, knights, magic-users, clerics, thieves, rangers, and mixed
classes.

Kender are a small people characterized by an absolute lack of fear,
and an insatiable curiosity. They are especially resistant to magic
and poison, and have the special ability to taunt intelligent
opponents. When kender successfully taunt, an opponent will attack in
a mindless rage, suffering a loss of combat effectiveness. The
preferred weapon of the kender is the hoopak, part staff-sling, part
metal-shod staff, which only they can use.  Kender receive bonuses to
hit with hoopaks, and are deadly accurate shots.  They can be thieves,
fighters, rangers, clerics or mixed classes.

Humans are the most common player-race in the world of Krynn. Humans
do have the disability of shorter life-spans than the other races.
This may be a problem if they are subjected to many haste spells,
which age the hasted character one year. They can be fighters,
magicusers, clerics, thieves, paladins, rangers, and knights - but not
mixed classes.

Ability Scores

Every character has six randomly generated ability scores as described
below.  These scores fall within a range determined by the race and
class of the character. The base values range from 3 (low) to 18
(high). There are tables of limitations, modifiers, and bonuses
starting on page 49.

Depending on the character class, one or more of these abilities will
be a Prime Requisite. A prime requisite is an ability especially
valuable to a given class. For example, strength is key for fighters
and wisdom for clerics. Most characters receive bonus experience
points when their prime requisite scores are 16 or greater. Non-human
characters may have modifiers to the basic ability scores to reflect
differences between the races.

Dwarves for instance, get a +1 constitution bonus and may have a
maximum constitution of 19 instead of 18. All racial modifiers are
calculated automatically when a character is generated.

Strength (STR) is the measure of a character's physical power, muscle
mass, and stamina. Fighter-type characters (fighters, paladins, and
rangers) may have exceptional strengths greater than 18 that are
indicated by a percent value (01, 02, 03 . . . 98, 99, 00) following
the base strength. High strength increases a character's combat
ability with melee weapons, such as swords or maces. Strength also
determines how much a character can carry without becoming encumbered
and slowed in combat.

Intelligence (INT) is the measure of how well a character can learn.
Intelligence level determines the maximum level of spells a magic-user
can cast.

Wisdom (WIS) is the measure of a character's ability to understand the
ways of the world and to interact with the world. Clerics receive
bonus spells for high wisdom, and wisdom determines the maximum level
of spells a cleric can cast.

Dexterity (DEX) is the measure of a character's manual dexterity and
agility.  Thieves especially benefit from high dexterity. Dexterity
affects how well a character can use ranged weapons (bows, dart,
etc.), when he moves in a combat round, and how difficult he is to hit
in combat.

Constitution (CON) is the measure of a character's overall health.
Characters receive one extra hit point if their constitution is 15,
and two points if it is 16. Fighter-types (fighters, rangers, knights,
and paladins) receive additional bonuses for constitutions of 17 or
18. A character's constitution also determines the maximum number of
times that character can be raised from the dead with raise dead or
resurrection spells, and the chance of a resurrection attempt being
successful. Every time a character is successfully resurrected, I
point of constitution is lost.

Charisma (CHA) is the measure of how others react to a character.

Charisma is sometimes a factor when encountering NPCs - the higher a
character's charisma, the more that character can persuade others to
do what he wants. The character with the highest charisma should be
the active character when dealing with NPCs.

Character Classes

Classes are the characters' professions. A character must be at least
one character class. Non-human characters can be more than one class
at the same time. These multi-class characters have more playing
options, but move up in levels slowly because experience is divided
evenly among all classes.

Characters receive hit points, spells, and abilities based on their
class, level, and (sometimes) ability scores. Refer to the tables at
the back of this journal to find the number and size of hit dice a
character receives, and the number of spells the character can
memorize.

Clerics have spells bestowed on them by their deity and can fight
wearing armor and using crushing (no edged or pointed) weapons. After
selecting an alignment, clerics may only choose a deity appropriate to
their alignment.  Each of the deities extend special abilities to
their followers. For more information, see the "Deities" section on
page 13. Clerics have the ability to sometimes turn away, or even
destroy undead creatures such as skeletons or zombies. This power
increases as the cleric increases in level. Clerics must memorize
their spells just as magic-users, but they do not use spell books.
When clerics gain a new spell level, they can automatically memorize
any of the available spells for that level. The prime requisite for
clerics is wisdom.

Fighters can fight with any armor or weapons, but they cannot cast
magic spells. All fighter-types (fighters, paladins, knights, and
rangers) gain the ability to attack more than one time per round when
they reach higher levels. They can also have exceptional strength,
gaining additional hit point bonuses if they have a constitution of
17+. The prime requisite for fighters is strength.

Paladins are a type of fighter, and can fight with any armor or
weapons.  They are resistant to spells and poison, and can turn undead
creatures as if they were a cleric two levels below their current
paladin level. Paladins are also always surrounded by the equivalent
of a protection from evil 10' radius spell. Paladins may heal two hit
points of damage per level once a day. They may cure disease once a
week for every five levels of experience.  For example, once a week at
1st-5th levels, twice a week at 6th-l0th levels, etc. They can use
cleric spells when they reach 9th level, although they can never use
clerical scrolls. They advance in spell-casting ability until 20th
level.

Paladins must be of lawful good alignment, and they will not knowingly
adventure with any evil characters. They must have ability scores of
at least 9 in intelligence and constitution, at least 12 in strength,
at least 13 in wisdom, and at least 17 in charisma. The prime
requisites for paladins are strength and wisdom.

Rangers are a type of fighter, and can fight with any armor or
weapons. They do additional damage when fighting giantclass creatures.
Rangers must be of good alignment and have ability scores of at least
13 in strength and intelligence, and at least 14 in wisdom and
constitution. They can use druid spells when they reach 8th level, and
magic-user spells when they reach 9th level. Their spellcasting
ability advances until 17th level. Rangers can never use scrolls of
any type. The prime requisites for rangers are strength, intelligence,
and wisdom.

Solamnic Knights are the pride of chivalric honor in the world of
Krynn. The knights are divided into three orders: the Knights of the
Crown, the Knights of the Sword, and the prestigious Knights of the
Rose. All are renowned for their bravery and skill at arms. Knights
begin the game with Solamnic Plate Mail, helm +2, long sword +2, and a
shield +2.

Knights are valuable for their leadership ability in combat. Whenever
a party with a Knight enters combat, he makes a leadership check. If
the check is successful all NPCs in the party come under your control
like regular PCs.  Chance of success increases dramatically as a
Knight rises through the three orders.

If a Knight of either of the first two orders (Crown or Sword) is of
sufficient level, and has high enough ability scores, he may petition
the next higher order for admission. When Knights of the Sword or the
Rose become sixth-level, they gain the ability to cast some clerical
spells.

Note: Knights receive experience bonuses for doing knightly deeds and
not for meeting prime requisites minimums.

To join the Knights of the Sword a knight must have the following
minimum ability scores: STR 12, INT 9, WIS 13, DEX 9, CON 10.

To join the Knights of the Rose a knight must have the following
minimum ability scores: STR 15, INT 10, WIS 13, DEX 12, CON 15.

Magic-Users have powerful spells, but can use no armor and few
weapons.  They can only memorize those spells available in their
personal spell books.  Magic-users may add entries to their spell
books whenever they go up in level or find scrolls with spells of
levels that they are able to scribe.  In the world of Krynn, the power
of magic-users are divided into three orders based on alignment.  A
magic-user s power fluctuates with the cycles of the moon that
influences his order.  For more information on the orders and moons
see the Magic section (page 12).  The prime requisite for magic-users
is intelligence.

Thieves have special skills for opening locks and removing traps, but
are limited to using swords, short bows, slings, and leather armor.
In combat they do additional damage by  back stabbing , which is
described in the Combat section.  Starting at 10th level, thieves can
decipher some magical writing and have a chance of casting spells from
magic-user scrolls.  The prime requisite for thieves is dexterity.

Multi-class characters are non-humans who belong to two or more
classes at the same time.  Multi-class characters experience points
are divided among each of the classes, even after they can no longer
advance in one or more of those classes.  Their hit points per level
are averaged among their classes.  Multi-class characters gain all the
benefits of all their classes with regard to weapons and equipment.


Alignment
Alignment is the philosophy a character lives by, and can affect how
NPCs and some magic items react to a character.  The possibilities
range from believing strongly in society and altruism (lawful good) to
being anarchistic and actively unpleasant (chaotic evil).  Alignment
is presented in two parts: World View and Ethics.

World View
Lawful indicates that the character values the structure and rules of
society.

Neutral indicates that the character values both the individual and
society.

Chaotic indicates that the character values the individual over
society.

Ethics
Good indicates that the character tries to act in a moral and
upstanding manner.

Neutral indicates that the character leans towards situational ethics,
evaluating each set of circumstances.

Evil indicates that the character acts without regard to others, or in
an overly malignant manner.  Player characters cannot be evil.


Other Attributes
Each character also has three important values that change as the game
goes on:  hit points, experience points, and levels.

Hit Points measure the amount of damage a character can take before he
goes unconscious.  A character s maximum hit points are based on the
hit dice for the character s class and level, plus any adjustments for
constitution.  A character gains a hit point bonus to each hit die if
his constitution is over 14.

Note: Dice (d) is the term used to describe the range for a randomly
generated number.  Dice are referred to by the range they represent.
A d6 has a range from 1 through 6, a d10 has a range from 1 through
10.  Hit dice refers to the base range of hit points a character class
may have.  For example, a 3rd level fighter has a base of 3 d10 hit
dice, or 3-30 hit points.

When a character takes enough damage that his hit points reach 0, he
is unconscious.  If the character s hit points drop to anything from
-1 to -9, he will lose 1 hit point per turn from bleeding until he is
bandaged or dies.  If a character has -10 hit points or less, he is
dead.  Hit points on the screen will never be displayed as less than
0.

Experience Points are a measure of what a character has learned while
adventuring.  Characters receive experience points for actions such as
fighting monsters, finding treasures, and successfully completing
guests.  The computer keeps track of experience, and when characters
earn enough, they may advance in levels.  See the Level Advancement
Tables beginning on page 55 for experience requirements.

New characters start the game with 1,000,001 EXP, which puts most
single-class characters at about 12th level.

Levels are a measure of how much a character has advanced in his
class.  When they have enough experience points, characters may go to
a training hall and receive the training required to increase in
level.  Characters may only advance one level at a time.

If a character has gained enough experience to go up two or more
levels since the last time he has trained, he goes up one level, and
lose all experience in excess of one point below the next level.

Example:
A 9th level thief enters a training hall with 375,000     experience
points (enough for the 11th level).  He will leave as a 10th level
thief with 220,000 experience points- one point below 11th level.

Characters cannot train for new levels once they have reached the
maximum levels allowed.

Building a Successful Party

Forming a strong and adaptable party is a key to success in DARK QUEEN
OF KRYNN.  Up to six Player Characters (PCs) may be in a party-a party
with fewer is less powerful and more likely to be eliminated by
opponents.

Include a variety of classes in a party to get a good mix of skills.
Here are two sample parties:

    Sample Party #1:
        1 Human Knight
        1 Human Paladin
        1 Dwarf Ranger
        1 Kender Cleric of Mishakal/Thief
        1 Qualinesti Elf Cleric of Shinare/Fighter/Red Robe Mage
        1 Silvanesti Cleric of Majere/Fighter/White Robe Mage

    Sample Party #2:
        1 Human Knight
        1 Silvanesti Elf Cleric of Mishakal/Fighter/White Robe Mage
        1 Half-Elf Ranger/Cleric of Majere
        1 Qualinesti Elf Cleric of Shinare/Fighter/Red Robe Mage
        1 Kender Cleric of
        1 Qualinesti Elf Fighter/Red Robe Mage

Why These Classes?
Cleric/Fighter/Magic-Users are the ultimate multi-purpose character.
A cleric/fighter/magic-user can cast both magic-user and cleric spells
while wielding the armor and weapons of a fighter.  The main
disadvantage of the cleric/fighter/magic-user is that, as a
triple-class character, they advance in levels quite slowly.

Fighter/Magic-Users may cast spells while wearing armor.  This split
class can fight as well as a fighter and receives more hit points than
a pure magic-user.  Cleric/Thieves have more hit points and a better
armor class than pure thieves.  As a cleric, the cleric/thief can cast
healing and support spells, allowing the character to perform double
duty as both the party thief and additional healer.  The thief status
permits the powerful back stab attach which is described in the Combat
section.

Clerics are essential for healing the party after engagements.  The
most efficient way to heal is to ENCAMP and select FIX (you can issue
this command several times while encamped).  FIX works as follows:

If a cleric is in the party, all available cure spells are cast and
automatically rememorized until all characters are healed.  If the
party has taken more damage than clerics have cure spells, the FIX
option may be used again.  When FIX is used, characters at the top of
the list will be healed before the characters below them.  If a cleric
is not in the party, hit points may be recovered through rest (1HP per
24 hour period), potions or Temple services.

Rangers normally start the game with more HP than other fighter types.
They do extra damage versus giant monsters, and receive magic and
druidic spells at high level.

Knights are powerful fighters and there are some items that may only
be used by them.  Knights have special leadership abilities and gain
clerical spells at high levels.

Paladins are great warriors.  In addition to their martial prowess,
they have natural protection from evil 10 radius, healing powers, and
they gain clerical spells.

Preparation Tips
Once the party has banded together, camp at the inn, ready equipment,
and have all spellcasters memorize spells.  Finally, save the game
before continuing.


COMBAT
Adventurers must battle their way through many dangerous foes to
complete the adventure.  The following sections offer some more
information and tips for combat.

Combat Map
Battle takes place on a tactical combat map that is a detailed view of
the terrain that the party was in when the combat began.  This map is
set up with an invisible square grid.

Initiative
Each round of combat is divided into 10 segments, and every character
and foe acts on a specific segment based on a random initiative
number.  Initiative is generated at the start of each combat round,
and is modified by dexterity and random factors such as surprise.
Characters can act on their initiative segment, or use the DELAY
command to hold action until the end of the round.  Casting spells may
take extra time to perform, so often a spellcaster will begin a spell
on his segment, but the spell will not go off until a little later.

Computer Control
In combat you control the actions of PCs.  The computer controls the
actions of monsters, NPCs and PCs set to computer control with the
QUICK command.  If you have a Knight or paladin in your party, he may
take control of NPCs at the start of combat by making a successful
leadership check.  A successful leadership check puts NPCs under
normal control for that combat.

Combat Ability
Each character s ability in combat is defined by AC, THAC0, and
Damage.

Armor Class
A character s or monster s difficulty to be hit is represented by
armor class (AC).  The lower the AC, the harder the target is to hit.
AC is based on readied armor and a dexterity bonus.  Some magic items,
such as some bracers, also help improve AC.

THAC0
The ability to hit enemies in melee or with missile fire is
represented by THAC0.  THAC0 stands for To Hit Armor Class 0.  This is
the number a character must roll equal to or greater than to do damage
on a target with an AC of 0.  The lower the THAC0, the better the
chance to hit the target.

NOTE: the generation of a random number is often referred to as a
roll .  In determining the success of an attack, the number generated
is from 1 to 20.

An attack is successful if the random number is greater than or equal
to the attacker s THAC0 minus the target s AC.  THAC0 may be modified
by things like range, attacking from the rear, magic weapons, and
magic spells.

Example:
A fighter with a THAC0 of 5 attacking a monster with an AC of 3 would
need to roll (THAC05) -(AC3) = 2+

But to hit a monster with an AC of -2 he would need to roll (THAC05) -
(AC-2) = 7+


Damage
Damage is the range of hit point loss the attacker inflicts and is
based on the attacker s strength, weapon type, and any magic bonuses
the weapon has.  The base damage for each weapon is summarized in the
Weapons Table.

Some monsters take only partial or no damage from certain weapon
types.  Skeletons, for example, take only half damage from sharp or
edged weapons, while some other monsters may only be damaged by
magical weapons.

Attacking
There are two basic types of attack: Melee and Ranged (or Missile).
The following describes each type and other rules governing combat.

Melee Combat
Melee combat is face-to-face fighting with weapons such as swords and
maces.  Only when using melee weapons can characters receive strength
bonuses.  Fighters can sometimes overpower several small foes during
melee combat, and thieves have opportunities to  back stab.

Ranged Combat
Ranged combat is firing at distant enemies with weapons such as bows
or darts.  A character with a missile weapon (bow, sling, etc.) may
not attack when adjacent to an enemy.  Two arrows or three darts can
be fired per turn.

Multiple Attacks
After seventh-level (eighth for rangers) all fighter-type characters
increase the number of attacks they make with melee weapons.  The
first increase is three attacks every two rounds, then two attacks
every round.  See the Bonus Attacks for High Level Fighters.

All of a character s attacks are taken against his first target.  If
the first target goes down with the first attack, you can aim the
remaining attack at another target.  Fighter-types may also sweep
through several weak opponents in one combat round.  When a character
sweeps he automatically attacks all of the weak opponents.

Back Stabbing
A thief back stabs if he attacks a target from exactly opposite the
first character to attack the target.  The thief may not back stab if
he has readied armor heavier than leather.  A back stab has a better
chance of hitting the defender and does additional damage.

Saving Throws
Attacks such as poison or spells do not automatically have their full
effect on a target.  Victims may get a saving throw to avoid some or
all of the effect.  If the saving throw is successful, generally the
target suffers either no effect or only half-damage.  Saving throws
improve as characters gain levels.

Note: some monsters have natural magic resistance which decreases the
chance that they will be affected by spells.


Combat Movement
The number of squares a character can move is affected by carried
weight, character strength, and the kind of readied armor.  A
character s movement range is displayed on the View Screen and during
the character s segment in combat.  Combat movement is important for
both closing quickly with opponents (and stopping missile fire) and
fleeing from battles that are too tough.

Running Away
A character may flee from the battlefield if he moves faster than all
enemies, but not if he moves slower than any enemies.  A character has
a 50% chance to move off the battlefield if he moves as fast as the
fastest foe.

Exception: if a character can reach the edge of the combat map without
any of his opponents being able to see him, he may then flee
successfully even though he is slower than his opponents.

Returning to the Party
A character that moves off the battlefield returns to the party after
the flight is over.  If all active characters flee combat, any dead or
unconscious characters are lost.  Characters that flee a combat
receive no experience points for the battle.

Combat Strategies
To succeed in combat, a skilled player deploys his party well, casts
effective spells before and during combat, maneuvers his characters
into advantageous positions, and attacks using his most powerful
characters and weapons.

Deploying the Party
When a battle begins, your party is automatically positioned based on
the order list of the characters.  Characters near the top of the
order are in the front lines and vulnerable to the attack.  To change
the starting deployment, change the party order from the ALT menu
while encamped.  Shift the heavily armored fighters up the list and
the vulnerable magic-users and thieves toward the bottom.  Party order
cannot be changed while in combat, although characters are free to
move.

Your party may be placed in a bad position at the start of a battle.
Get an idea of the situation, and move the characters into better
deployment.  Sometimes the best strategy is offensive: charging with
fighters to close ground and stop enemy magic and missile fire.  Other
times the best strategy is defensive: moving your characters to anchor
their flanks on an obstacle such as a wall or tree.  Setting up behind
a doorway that your enemies have to move through also makes for a very
strong defensive position.  Always keep magic-users and missile
weapons safe behind the front line.

Wounded Characters
Characters who are seriously injured should be cured or moved out of
the front lines if possible.  Remember: if you move away from an
adjacent enemy, he gets a free attack at your back and has an improved
chance to hit.

Stopping Ranged Attacks
Missile weapons cannot be fired if there is an adjacent opponent.  To
stop enemy missile fire, move someone next to the opponent.  If you
want to fire missiles, keep away from the enemy.

Exploiting Enemies Weaknesses
Exploit your opponents weaknesses by directing attacks against
helpless, wounded, or isolated foes.  Concentrate your attacks to
eliminate one opponent rather than injure many (exception: enemy
spellcasters).  A foe with one hit point remaining attacks as
powerfully as an uninjured one.

If spellcasters are hit in a round, they lose any spells they are
preparing to cast, and cannot cast for the remainder of that round.
Try to keep enemy spellcasters under attack every round while
protecting your own.  After Combat If one or more characters survive
on the battlefield at the end of combat, the bodies of unconscious or
dead party members state with the party.  If the entire party flees
from combat, all unconscious and dead party members are permanently
lost.  If ALL the party members are slain, go back to your last saved
game and try again from that point.

MAGIC
Magic is integral to THE DARK QUEEN OF KRYNN.  Magic-users and
clerics, as well as high-level Knights, rangers, and paladins can cast
spells.  Magic is essential to the survival of the party.  Magic-users
cast many powerful offensive and defensive spells.  Clerics cast
healing spells to revive wounded characters as well as both defensive
and offensive spells.  A spell can exist in one of four forms: in a
character s memory, in a character s spell book, on a scroll, or in a
wand.  Memorized spells are cast with the CAST command.  Spells are
memorized during rest while encamped.  Spells in scrolls or wands are
cast with the USE command.

Memorizing a spell takes 15 minutes of game time per spell level, plus
a preparation period based on spell level:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Spell Level:     1-2         3-4         5-6         7-8         9

Preparation
Time:         4hrs.         6hrs.         8hrs.         10hrs. 12hrs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Example:
To memorize two 1st level spells, one 2nd level spell, and one 3rd
level spell would take:  (6 hours preparation) + (2 * 15 min) + (1 *
30 min) + (1 * 45 min)= 7 hours 45 min.

Spells do not automatically have their full effect on their target.
Each target of a spell may get a saving throw to avoid some or all of
the effects of the spell.

Magic-Users
There are two orders of magic-users you can play - White Robe Mages
and Red Robe Mages.  All good alignment magic-users are White Robe
Mages and neutral alignment magic-users are Red Robe Mages.  Evil
magic-users are Black Robe Mages.  The few magic-users in the world
who do not enter an order are called Rogues and are attacked on sight
by all of the other orders.  Magic-users keep spell information in
their personal spell books, and may only memorize spells that are
recorded there.  When a magic-user trains for a new level, he selects
a new spell to add to his spell book.  A magic-user can also scribe
spells from identified scrolls if he is of high enough level to cast
them.  A magic-user must cast a read magic spell or have a scroll
identified in a shop before he can scribe (or cast) from it.  The
scroll disappears after it has been scribed or cast.


The Moons of Krynn
Since the creation of the world, three moons have governed the powers
of magic in Krynn.  As the moons wax and wane, so do the powers of
magic aligned to them.  Each moon has a different group of
magic-users.  Magic-users of the White Robe Mages gain their power
from Solinari the white moon, Magic-users of the Red Robe Mages are
governed by Lunitari the red moon.  The evil Magic-users of the Black
Robe Mages are empowered by the dark moon Nuitari.  The current
position of the moons is displayed at the top of your computer screen
and their effects are as follows:

<IMG SRC="DQK_AJ09.GIF">
MOONS OF KRYNN

Spheres of Magic
The magic of Krynn operates in spheres, with the different schools of
magic-users only able to manipulate certain of them; spells castable
by one order may not necessarily be cast by another.  The "Spell
Parameters List" on page 52, and the "Spell Descriptions" beginning on
page 24 detail which magic-user orders can cast each spell.

Clerics
Clerical magic requires no spell books.  All clerical spells of the
appropriate level are always available to a cleric, the character need
only memorize them.  Unlike magic-users, clerics can cast spells from
scrolls without any preparation, although clerical scrolls also
disappear after being cast.

Deities
Since the earliest days of Krynn, the wisdom of the deities has been
brought to all the races through the efforts of the clerics, the
mortal messengers of the will of the heavens.  As a sign of favor,
deities bestow upon their clerics special bonuses or additional
spells.  The following is a list of the deities of Krynn that are
available to characters, their alignment, and clerical bonuses:

Good Aligned Deities

    Paladine
    Powers: None
    Extra Spells: protection from evil 10' radius

    Majere
    Powers: Turn undead as if cleric is two levels higher
    Extra Spells: silence 15' radius

    Kiri-Jolith
    Powers: +1 THAC0
    Extra Spells: detect magic

    Mishakal
    Powers: +1 die on all healing spells
    Extra Spells: charm person, remove curse, bless


Neutral Aligned Duties

    Sirrion
    Powers: None
    Extra Spells: burning hands

    Reorx
    Powers: +1 THAC0 (dwarves only)
    Extra spells: none

    Shinare
    Powers: None
    Extra Spells: charm person

* All dwarven clerics must select Reorx and therefore must be neutral.

Knights and Paladins
Knights and paladins use their clerical spells identically to clerics,
except that they can never use clerical scrolls, even if they may not
cast the spells.

Rangers
Rangers use magic and druidic spells.  They use magic spells
identically to magic-users and the druidic spells as clerics use their
magic.  Rangers can never cast spells from scrolls, even if they can
memorize and cast the scroll spell normally.

Tips on Magic
Both clerics and magic-users may cast spells which assist the party in
combat.  Prepatory spells, such as bless or strength, cast just before
a tough battle can protect or strengthen characters.  Combat spells
can be cast to damage foes during combat.  Healing spells can be cast
either during or after combat to revive wounded comrades.

Spells should be rememorized as soon as possible after they are used.
This is most likely to happen after combat.  When in camp, have your
spellcasters memorize spells and select REST to allow them to imprint
the spells for later use.  Selecting REST without choosing new spells
as they have cast since last resting.

Note: Before resting, it is a good idea to save your game-especially
after tough combats.  Also, keep at least two separate saved games at
all times and alternate between them.  This will allow you to go back
to a save before that last, fatal battle or to try different
strategies at key points.

MAGICAL TREASURES
As you travel about and encounter the monsters and puzzles that stand
between you and finishing your various guests, you will find magical
items to help you on a treasure by casting a detect magic spell using
the DETECT command.  To find out specifically what an item is, you
must take it to a shop and have it identified.

Some magic items are in reality cursed and can do great harm.  When a
character readies a cursed item, a remove curse spell must be cast
before the item can be dropped.  Some magic items, such as wands or
scrolls, may be used only by certain classes.  Others may not work at
all if certain other magic items are also in use.

Here are some descriptions of some items that you may find.  Remember:
Some items are very rare, and you may not find all of them in your
adventure.

Wands generally cast a set of number of a given spell (for example, 10
fireballs or 15 magic missiles).  Only experimentation or paying to
have them identified tells what a wand does.  The USE command allows a
character to cast spells with a readied wand.

Potions may heal wounded characters, cause them to become hastened or
invisible, or cause any number of other effects.  The USE command
allows a character to drink a readied potion.

Scrolls carry either clerical or magic-user spells.  A magic-user may
use SCRIBE to permanently transfer a scroll into his spell book if the
spell is of a level that he can memorize.  Magic-users and clerics can
both cast spells directly from scrolls with the USE command, even if
they could not otherwise memorize the spells.  Scrolls disappear after
they have been used or scribed.  Magic-users must cast read magic, or
have scrolls identified in a shop before scribing or casting from
them.  Also, thieves of 10th level or higher have a chance of casting
spells from magic-user scrolls.

Enchanted Armor and Shields are created by skilled craftsman and then
enchanted with protective spells.  The power of the magic on these
items varies a great deal.  Enchanted armor has the great advantage of
offering improved protection with less encumbrance than the same type
of mundane armor.  To use these items, ready them from the Items Menu.

Enchanted Weapons come in many sizes, shapes, and potencies.
Sometimes a weapon will add between one and five to your THAC0 and
damage.  Some weapons may have other fantastic magical properties
including bonuses against specific types of creatures.  Once a magic
weapon has been readied from the Items Menu, the character has it for
all combats.

Dragonlances are powerful enchanted weapons that were created for the
War of the Lance to combat evil dragons.  They have large bonuses
against any foe, but are deadly when attacking dragons, where they do
t he wielder's hit points in damage to the beast.

Enchanted Adornments such as bracers, necklaces and especially rings
are favorite objects for magical enchantment.  These items may have
any number of magical properties.  Some items will help your AC,
others may fire magic missiles, or offer protection from fire-based
attacks.  Once one of these items has been readied from the Items
Menu, a character automatically gains all of its effects.  The
exception to this rule is that certain magical necklaces require the
USE command to work.

Enchanted Clothing can be such commonplace items as gauntlets or
cloaks, but they are imbued with powerful enchantments.  A wide
variety of these items are known to exist.  To use these items, READY
them from the Items Menu.


CREATURES OF THE DRAGONLANCE SAGA

The denizens of these regions are many and varied. Here is a list of
monsters you may encounter in your adventures. Some of these creatures
are extremely rare, and you may never cross paths with them all.

Bakali
These lizard-men of Taladas are powerful warriors, but they are
susceptible to extra damage from cold attacks. Bakali warlords are the
mightiest of their kind, and they may be accompanied by evil shamans.

Beholder
Also called "eye tyrants" or spheres of many eyes, these are solitary
horrors of great power. Each of the creature's eyes has a unique
magical power.  Beholders are armored with tough chitinous skin.

Black Pudding
Black puddings are lurking horrors of deep caverns and dungeons. They
are immune to damage from weapons, lightning, and cold, but take
normal damage from fire. A black pudding can dissolve armor;
nonmagical banded or plate mail can be dissolved in two rounds, while
lesser armor can be dissolved in a single round. Each magical bonus on
a suit of armor takes one additional round to dissolve.

Boring Beetle

These giant beetles favor rotting wood and similar organic material
upon which to feed. They are usually found inside huge trees or unused
underground tunnel complexes.

Disir
Disir are skulking monsters which are perpetually swathed in layers of
poisonous slime.  The slime protects a disir from damage from fire,
and it also afflicts a person who is hit by a disir with momentarily
severe agony, making it difficult for the victim to attack the disir
until the effect of the toxin is overcome.

Draconian
Draconians are special troops of the Dragon Highlords. They are
created by corrupting the eggs of good dragons with vile sorceries.
Because of their magical origins, all draconians are somewhat
resistant to magic. There are six types of draconians:

Aurak
Created from the eggs of gold dragons, they attack with energy bolts,
poisonous gas clouds, or their claws and fangs. When an aurak is
slain, it turns into a blazing ball of attacking energy and then
explodes.

Baaz
Made from brass dragon eggs, they are the most common of the
draconians. When killed, baaz will turn to stone and then crumble into
a pile of rubble. The weapon used to slay a baaz will sometimes be
trapped in its crumbling stone corpse and pulled from the attacker's
hand.

Bozak
These draconians were created from bronze dragon eggs and can cast
spells in addition to attacking with their claws and fangs. Bozaks
explode when killed.

Kapak
These draconians can be distinguished from the others by their
poisonous venom. Frequently kapaks will lick their weapons and coat
them with venom.  When a kapak is killed, it dissolves into a pool of
dangerous acid.

Sivak
Sivaks are created from silver dragon eggs and are the only draconians
that can truly fly. They are shapeshifters and are very deadly in
combat.

Traag (proto-)
The traag draconians are among the first failed attempts to create
draconians, a precursor to the more successful baaz. While not overtly
tall, they are emaciated and gangly. They have sharp taloned hands,
and crocodilelike snouts.

Dragons
These are some of the most powerful and dangerous monsters a party can
encounter. The older and larger a dragon, the more damage it can do
and the harder it is to kill. In addition to their awesome strength,
dragons inspire an insidious terror called dragon fear. Many times the
mere sight of a dragon will cause opponents to panic and flee:

Amphi dragon
These creatures, a unique crossbreed of a green dragon and a sea
dragon, are vast toadlike inhabitants of swamps and ocean floors. They
are most at home underwater, although they can hop about on land.
Amphi dragons can breathe a jet of deadly acid upon their adversaries.

Black Dragon
These dragons attack by spitting streams of acid and slashing with
razor sharp claws and fangs. Since they are extremely independent and
only obey commands if it suits their purpose, black dragons were
rarely used in direct assaults by the evil Dragon Highlords. They are
more highly valued as guards.

Blue Dragon
Highly intelligent and greatly feared, these dragons exhale lightning
bolts and attack in melee with claws and fangs. Blue dragons are more
gregarious than many of their cousins. They obey orders and can act
and fight together as a cohesive unit. They are loyal allies of the
evil Dragon Highlords.

Dragon, Death
When some highly magical and intelligent dragons die, they become
death dragons. Their will is so powerful that their dead and rotting
bodies remain animated. They breathe a lethal cloud of gas.

Green Dragon
These dragons are notorious even among the other dragons for their
cruel natures. They attack with a poisonous breath, and their claws
and fangs. They will obey orders, but only from leaders whom they
respect. Clever and subtle, green dragons prefer to use trickery and
magic on an enemy rather than an all-out assault.

Red Dragon
Perhaps the most feared of all the evil dragons, these beasts were the
favored assault force of the Dragon Highlord armies during the War of
the Lance. Not usually inclined to obey orders, red dragons enjoy
nothing more than setting cities ablaze, destroying, and looting. Red
dragons can exhale great spouts of flame, cast magic spells, or attack
with their claws and fangs.

Sea Dragon
The fearsome sea dragons resemble giant turtles with a dragon's head
and tail.  They travel the deep oceans, occasionally overturning small
vessels for sustenance and entertainment. They can breathe a cloud of
boiling steam which is equally destructive above and below the surface
of the sea.

White Dragon
Unique among dragons in their preference for cold climates, these
creatures can attack with their freezing cold breath in addition to
razor sharp claws and fangs. These are one of the smaller and less
intelligent of the dragon species.

Ettin
These fierce creatures look like giant two-headed orcs. They have
great strength and wield spiked clubs that inflict terrible damage in
combat.

Eye of the Deep
Eyes of the deep are oceanic cousins of the beholder. From their large
central eyes, they can emit a blinding ray, which will stun all
with-in their path. Even the gaze from one of their smaller eyes can
paralyze the largest creatures of the sea.

Fire Elemental
These elementals are conjured up from their normal habitat on the
elemental plane of fire. They are terrible to behold and can be fierce
opponents. They are immune to both magical and non-magical fire
attacks.

Fire Giant
These giants are brutal and ruthless warriors who resemble huge
dwarves and have flaming red or orange hair, and coal black skin. Some
fire giants can use magic.

Fire Minion
These fearsome creatures are composed of living flame, most often
taking the shape of large humanoids. They radiate intense heat and are
healed by fire.

Fireshadow
These are terrifying creatures of the abyss which are perpetually
wreathed in an aura of pale green fire. They are immune to fire and
their flaming green touch can consume a victim in minutes. They can
also cast a ray of oblivion that instantly disintegrates all in its
path.

Gas Spore
These floating spheres resemble beholders, but are actually benign. If
a gas spore is attacked, it often explodes.

Ghast
These creatures are humans transformed into undead monsters which feed
on the decaying flesh of corpses. Although the transformation from
human-form has deranged and destroyed their minds, they maintain an
evil cunning. Their touch paralyzes humans and they exude a carrion
stench which causes retching and nausea. The ghast is susceptible to
cold.

Giant Anemone
These sedentary submarine monsters catch prey in their tentacles, and
inject a paralyzing poison.  They then draw their prey in and devour
it.

Giant Squid
The giant squids of the deep ocean can attack their prey with eight
tentacles and a sharp beak. If a giant squid is seriously threatened,
it will squirt a blinding cloud of sepia ink, preventing attackers
from hindering it as it departs for safer quarters.

Gorgon
These are large, carnivorous, bull-like creatures -- protected by a
metallic hide.  They can breathe a cloud of petrifying gas on their
adversaries.

Hydra
These creatures are immense reptilian monsters with multiple heads.
All of its heads must be severed before it can be slain.

Iron Golem
Fashioned in the form of stylized armor, iron golems are dangerous,
fearless foes. They are affected only by very powerful magic weapons,
magical electrical attacks (which slow them), and magical fire attacks
(which heal them.)

Lich
These are undead wizards who have kept their body animated, and their
twisted spirits intact through magic. Liches maintain the magical
ability they possessed in life.

Minotaur
These creatures are part-man and part-bull warriors from the Blood Sea
Islands of Krynn. They are highly intelligent and dangerous opponents.

Mummy
These are powerful undead with great strength. The mere sight of one
has been known to paralyze a man in combat. The touch of a mummy
causes a strange rotting disease.

Purple Worm
These are enormous carnivores that burrow straight through solid
ground in search of small (adventurer-sized) morsels.

Sahuagin
The sahuagin are half-human, half-fish, and all evil. These marauders
of the deep sea occasionally come ashore for brief raids to wreak
havoc upon coastal dwellers. The mighty warriors and savage
priestesses of the Sahuaain are fearsome foes.

Salamander
These reptilian creatures are immune to all fire-based attacks. They
are dangerous foes because of their evil nature and their immunity to
all but magical weapons.

Sea Snake
These snakes are venomous marine monsters which like to immobilize
their prey with powerful toxins before swallowing the victim whole.

Shambling Mound
These huge creatures resemble animated piles of moss and slime. They
attack with their club-like arms and can smother opponents in their
slime. Their slimy forms are immune to fire and strengthened by
lightning bolts.

Skeleton Warrior
These undead warriors are forced into their nightmarish states by
powerful wizards. They are used by their controllers as bodyguards,
servants, or workers. Clerics have no power over these undead.

Spectral Minion
These undead are the spirits of humans and demi-humans who died before
they could fulfill powerful vows or quests. Spectral minions are often
not evil their unfulfilled obligations are often quite noble. They can
only be hit with magic weapons.

Spectre
These undead spirits haunt the most desolate and deserted places. They
attack all living creatures with mindless rage, drain life levels, and
can only be hit by magical weapons.

Spiders
These creatures are aggressive predators even when not hungry, they
attack creatures that disturb them. These are some of the species you
may encounter:

Enormous Spider
These spiders are poisonous, quick, and all too common hunters.

Whisper Spider
These spiders use lures and misdirection to capture their prey,
slaying them with a deadly poisonous bite.

Two Headed Troll
Kin to both the troll and the ettin, these creatures pack twice the
punch of smaller trolls. Luckily, two-headed trolls do not regenerate
as fast as their weaker, single-headed cousins.

Umber Hulk
These subterranean carnivores burrow through the ground with powerful
claws.

Vampire
These undead feed on the blood of the living. Often they are
indistinguishable from humans, and they maintain abilities they
possessed in life (This sometimes includes spellcasting). Vampires can
only be hit by magical weapons.

Wraith
These evil undead spirits feed on adventurers' life essence and can
only be hit by silver or magical weapons.

Wyndlass
These are tentacled horrors that lurk in desolate swamps and gloomy
forests.  A powerful predator, they can easily devour an entire horse.
Few have survived a firsthand meeting with a wyndlass.

Zombie
These are mindless, animated undead controlled by evil wizards or
clerics.  Although they are more dangerous than skeletons, they move
very slowly. These evil spirits' keening wail strikes fear into the
hearts of men. They attack with a chilling touch.

Zombie Minotaur
These zombies are created from the remains of minotaurs.


New Monsters

(The following creatures are appearing for the first time in an AD&D
computer fantasy role-playing game.)

Legend:

 AC: Armor Class
 HD: Hit Dice
 Mv: Movement
 Int: Intelligence
 Size: Size (M = Man Size; L = Large)
 Align: Alignment
    (TN = True Neutral, LE = Lawful Evil
    NE = Neutral Evil CE = Chaotic Evil)
 THAC0: To Hit Armor Class 0
 Att: Number of attacks
 Dmg: Damage
 Spec Att: Special Attacks
 Spec Def: Special Defenses
 XP: Expenence Point Value


Enchanted Aurak Draconian
AC: -8;HD: 16; Mv: 15; Int: Genius
Size: M; Align: LE; THAC0: -3
Att: 2; Dmg: 4d8/4d8;
Spec Att: Exploding, Magic; XP:16,000

Enchanted draconians are deadlier forms of the draconians of Ansalon,
their abilities enhanced by powerful sorcery. The enchanted aurak can
cast meteor swarm, otto's irresistible dance, delayed blast fireball,
disintegrate, and flesh to stone, once per day. Enchanted auraks go
berserk when slain, like auraks, and do double damage when they hit
while dying. When they finally explode, enchanted auraks do 16d8
points of damage over the same area as a fireball.


Enchanted Baaz Draconian
AC: 0; HD: 9; Mv: 15; Int: High;
Size: M; Align: CE; THAC0: 5;
Att: 2; Dmg: 2d8/2d8;
Spec Def: Trap Weapons; XP: 6,000

Enchanted Baaz can capture weapons by turning portions of their bodies
to stone whenever they are hit, not merely when they are killed.


Enchanted Bozak Draconian
AC: -4; HD: 12; Mv: 15; Int: Genius
Size: M; Align: LE; THAC0: 1
Att: 2; Dmg: 3d8;3d8;
Spec Att: Explosion, Magic; XP: 11,000

Enchanted Bozaks may cast cone of cold, ice storm, fire shield,
lightning bolt, and slow, once per day. When an enchanted bozak is
slain, it explodes into fragments, with the same effect as an ice
storm.


Enchanted Kapak Draconian
AC: -2; HD: 10; Mv: 15; Int: High;
Size: M; Align: LE; THAC0: 3
Att: 1; Dmg: 2d10;
Spec Att: Poison, Acid; XP: 8,000

Enchanted Kapaks coat their weapons with their toxic saliva; anyone
hit by a kapak must save versus poison at -4 or be paralyzed for 3d6
rounds. When an enchanted kapak is slain, it dissolves into a pool of
fuming acid which may spatter up to 10 feet in any direction.


Enchanted Sivak Draconian
AC: -6;HD: 14; Mv: Y4; Int: Genius;
Size: M; Align: NE; THAC0
Att: 3; Dmg: 2d8/2d8/4d8;
Spec Att: Back stab, Explosion; XP: 13,000

Enchanted sivaks which sneak up behind their adversaries may 'back
stab' as thieves do. When an enchanted sivak is slain, it erupts with
the effect of a meteor swarm.


Enchanted Traag Draconian
AC: 2; HD: 8; Mv: 6; Int: Average;
Size: M; Align: CE; THAC0: 7;
Att: Y; Dmg: 2d6/2d6; XP: 3,000

Enchanted traag draconian are enhanced specimens of the first,
experimental breed of draconians. They have no special powers.


Greater Disir
AC: O; HD: Y; Mv: 1 2; Int: High;
Size: M; Align: LE; THAC0: 12;
Att: 3; Dmg: 2d6/2d6/3d8;
Spec Att Poison;
Spec Def: Fire Resistance; XP: 7,000

Greater disirs are close relatives of the slime-covered disir, and the two
can frequently be found in the same horrid company.


Greater Otyugh
AC: O; HD: 14; Mv: 6; Int: Average;
Size: L; Align: TN; THAC0: 7
Att; 3; Dmg: 2d10/2d10/1d6;
Spec Def: Immunity to Disease
XP: 10000

Mages in the Realms have found that otyughs provide excellent defense
while disposing of useless offal. Since many mages are dissatisfied
with what already exists, some have improved on the otyugh. Except for
their great size and strength, greater otyughs are identical to the
otyugh.


Huge Bat
AC: 2; HD: 9; Mv: 18; Int: Low;
Size: L Align: NE; THAC0: 12;
Att: 3; Dmg: 2d4/2d4/1d8;
XP:1,400

These are mighty cousins of the cavedwelling bat. They attack with the
claws on their wings and a vicious bite.


Huge Crocodile
AC: 2; HD: 12; Mv: 12;
Int: Animal; Size: L
Align: TN; THAC0:
Att: 2; Dmg: 5d6/3d10;
XP:6,000

The huge crocodiles of the marshes and fens of the Blackwater Glade
are the largest of their kindred upon Krynn. They can attack with
their mighty jaws and by sweeping their powerful tails with the speed
of a striking cobra.


SPELL DESCRIPTIONS

First Level Cleric Spells

Bless improves the THAC0 of friendly characters by 1.  Bless cannot
affect characters who are adjacent to monsters when the spell is cast,
and the spell is not cumulative.  This is a good spell to cast before
going into combat.

Cure Light Wounds heals 1-8 hit points, up to the target's normal
maximum hit points.

Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical.
After casting the spell, view a character's items or take treasure
items, and equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' is magical.

Protection from Evil improves the AC and saving throws of the target
by 2 against attackers of evil alignment.  The effects of the spell
are not cumulative.

Resist Cold halves damage from cold attacks and improves saving throws
vs. cold attacks by 3.


Second Level Clerical Spells

Find Traps indicates the presence of traps in the party's path.

Hold Person may paralyze targets of character types (human, dwarf,
etc.).  You may aim a hold person spell at up to 3 targets (use the
EXIT command to target fewer).

Resist Fire halves damage from fire attacks and improves saving throws
vs. fire attacks by 3.

Silence 15" Radius magically dampens all sound in the area around the
target.  The target character or monster, and all adjacent, cannot
cast spells for the duration of the spell.

Slow Poison revives a poisoned person for the duration of the spell.

Snake Charm paralyzes as many hit points of snakes as the cleric has
hit points.

Spiritual Hammer creates a temporary magic hammer that is
automatically readied.  It can be thrown and does normal hammer
damage.  Spiritual hammers can hit monsters that may only be struck by
magic weapons.


Third Level Cleric Spells

Cure Blindness counters the effects of cause blindness and power word
blind

Cure Disease removes the effects of disease caused by some monsters or
cause disease.

Dispel Magic removes the effects of spells that do not have specific
counter spells.  This is the cure spell for any characters that have
been held, slowed, or made nauseous.

Prayer improves the THAC0 and saving throws of friendly characters by
1 and reduces the THAC0 and saving throws of monsters by 1.  This is a
good spell to cast before going into combat, but it is not cumulative.

Remove Curse removes the effects of bestow curse and allows the target
to unready magic items.


Fourth Level Cleric Spells

Cure Serious Wounds heals 3-17 hit points, up to the target's normal
maximum hit points.

Neutralize Poison counteracts all toxins and revives a poisoned
person.

Protection from Evil 10' Radius can be cast on a character or a
monster and improves the AC and saving throws of the target and all
adjacent friendly characters by 2 against evil attackers.  The effects
of this spell are not cumulative.

Sticks to Snakes causes a distracting mass of snakes to irritate the
target.  The snakes will make movement and spell casting impossible
for the duration of the spell.  Powerful creatures may ignore the
created snakes.


Fifth Level Cleric Spells

Cure Critical Wounds heals 6-27 hit points of damage, up to a target's
normal maximum hit points.

Dispel Evil improves the target's AC by 7 versus the summoned evil
creatures for the duration of the spell, or until the target hits a
summoned creature.  The creature must make a saving throw when it is
hit or be dispelled.

Flame Strike allows the cleric to call a column of fire down from the
heavens onto target.  The spell does 6-48 points of damage to any
target that fails its saving throw.

Raise Dead can bring back to life one (non-elf) character.  The
chances for success are based on the character's constitution and how
long the character has been dead.  The raised character will have 1
hit point and will lose 1 point of constitution.


Sixth Level Cleric Spells

Blade Barrier creates a whirling circle of razor sharp blades.  Any
who enter the circle suffer 8-64 points of damage.

Heal cures all diseases, blindness, feeble mindedness, and all except
1-4 of a character's full hit points.


Seventh Level Cleric Spells

Resurrection is similar to raise dead, except that it also restores
all hit points.

Restoration returns life energy stolen by energy drain or the attacks
of such undead as weights.


First Level Druid Spells

Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical.
After casting the spell, view a character's items or take treasure
items, and equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' is magical.

Entangle causes plants to grow and entwine around the feet of any
creature in the area of effect.  Be careful not to catch allies in the
spell area.

Faerie Fire rings a targeted creature in magical light.  This spell
will outline otherwise invisible targets and give a +2 THAC0 bonus to
anyone attacking an affected creature.

Invisibility to Animals makes the target invisible to non-magical,
low, or non-intelligent animals.  This spell does not offer protection
against intelligent opponents or magical creatures.


Second Level Druid Spells

Barkskin causes the target's skin to become tougher and harder to
damage.  The tough skin improves AC by 1.  This is a good spell to
cast before combat.

Charm Person or Mammal changes the target's allegiance in combat so
that an opponent will fight for the caster's side.  It affects
character types (human, dwarf, etc.) and other mammals.

Cure Light Wounds heals 1-8 hit points, up to the target's normal
maximum hit points.


Third Level Druid Spells

Cure Disease removes the effects of diseases caused by some monsters
or cause disease.

Hold Animal is similar to the cleric spell hold person, except that
only normal and giant-sized animals are affected.  This spell does not
affect monsters or NPCs.

Neutralize Poison revives a poisoned person.

Protection from Fire has different effects depending on the recipient.
If cast on the druid, the spell absorbs 12 hit points times the
caster's level in fire damage.  The spell dissipates when the damage
limit is reached.  If the cast on another character, the spell is
identical to the clerical resist fire spell.


First Level Magic-User Spells

Burning Hands causes 1 hit point of fire damage per level of the
caster.  There is no saving throw.  Usable by both Red and White Robe
Mages.

Charm Person changes the target's allegiance in combat so that an
opponent will fight for the caster's side.  It only affects character
types (human, dwarf, etc.).  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical.
After casting the spell, view a character's items or take treasure
items, and equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' is magical.
Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Enlarge makes the recipient larger and stronger.  The higher the
caster's level, the greater the spell effect.  Usable by both Red and
White Robe Mages.

Friends raises the caster's charisma by 2-8 points.  It is best cast
just before dealing with NPCs.  Usable by both Red and White Robe
Mages.

Magic Missile does 2-5 hit points per missile with no savings throw.
A magic-user throws 1 missile for every 2 levels (1 at levels 1-2, 2
at levels 3-4, etc.) This spell damages any single target within its
range unless the target is magic resistant or has magical protection
such as a shield spell.  This spell casts instantaneously.  Usable by
both Red and White Robe Mages.

Protection from Evil improves the AC and saving throws of the target
by 2 against attackers of evil alignment.  Usable by both Red and
White Robe Mages

Read Magic allows a magic-user to ready a scroll and read it.  This is
identical to having a scroll identified in a shop.  After casting read
magic, a magic-user may cast any scroll spells or scribe them if they
are appropriate for his level.  Usable by both Red and White Robe
Mages.

Shield negates enemy magic missile spells, improves the magic-user's
saving throw, and may increase his AC.  Usable by both Red and White
Robe Mages.

Shocking Grasp does 1-8 hit points of electrical damage +1 hit point
per level of caster.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Sleep puts 1-16 targets (depending on the size of the targets) to
sleep with no saving throw.  For example, up to sixteen 1 hit-die
targets can be affected.  Targets of 5 or more hit-dice are
unaffected.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.


Second Level Magic-User Spells

Detect Invisibility allows the target to spot invisible creatures.
Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Invisibility makes the target invisible.  The THAC0 of melee attacks
against invisible targets is reduced by 4, and it is impossible to aim
ranged attacks at them.  Invisibility is dispelled when the target
attacks or cast a spell.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Knock opens locks.  The spell will affect both magically and
non-magically locked doors, chests, etc.  Usable by Red Robe Mages
only.

Mirror Image creates 1-4 illusionary duplicates of the magic-user to
draw off attacks.  A duplicate user disappears when it is attacked.
Usable by Red Robe Mages only.

Ray of Enfeeblement reduces the target's strength by 25% +2% per level
of the caster.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Stinking Cloud paralyzes those its area of effect for 2-5 rounds.  If
the target saves, it is not paralyzed but its nauseous and has its AC
reduced for 2 rounds.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Strength raises the target's strength by 1-8 points depending on the
class of the target.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.


Third Level Magic-User Spells

Blink protects the magic-user.  The magic-user 'blinks out' after he
acts each round.  Although the magic-user may by physically attacked
before he acts each round, he may not be attacked after.  Usable by
Red Mages only.

Dispel Magic removes the effects of spells that do not have specific
counter spells.  This is a recuperation spell for any characters that
have been held, slowed or made nauseous.  Usable by White Robe Mages
only.

Fireball is a magical explosion that does 1-6 hit points of damage per
level of the caster to all targets within its area.  If the target
makes its saving throw, damage is halved.  Fireball is a slow-casting
spell, and the spell's power demands that you target carefully.  Use
the CENTER command to determine who will be in the area of effect --
indoors the three squares in each corner will not be affected by the
blast if the spell is targeted in the center of the screen.  Outdoors,
the blast area is slightly smaller.  Usable by both Red and White Robe
Mages.

Haste doubles the target's movement and number of melee attacks per
round.  Haste has a short duration, so you should wait until a fight
is imminent to cast it.  Warning: characters age one year each time a
haste spell is cast on them.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.

Hold Person may paralyze targets of character types (human, dwarf,
etc.).  You may aim a hold person spell at up to 4 targets (use the
EXIT command to target fewer).  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Invisibility, 10' Radius makes all targets adjacent to the caster
invisible.  The THAC0 of melee attacks against invisible targets is
reduced by 4, and it is impossible to aim ranged attacks at them.  Use
this spell to set up a battle line while your enemies seek you out.
Characters lose invisibility if they do anything but move.  Remember:
some monsters can see invisible creatures.  Usable by Red Robe Mages
only.

Lightning Bolt is a magical electrical attack that does 1-6 hit points
of damage per level of the caster to each target along its path.
Damage is halved if the targets make their saving throw.  A lightning
bolt is 8 squares long in a line away from the caster.  For best
results, send the bolt down a row of opponents.  Lightning bolts also
reflect off walls back toward the spellcaster.  Targets adjacent or
close to a wall may be hit twice by the same bolt.  Usable by both Red
and White Robe Mages.

Protection from Evil, 10' Radius protects the target and all
characters adjacent to the target.  The spell improves the AC and
saving throws of those it protects by 2 against attackers of evil
alignment.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Protection from Normal Missiles makes the target immune to non-magical
missiles.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Slow affects 1 target per level of caster and halves the target's
movement and number of melee attacks per round.  Slow can be used to
negate a haste spell and only affects the side opposing the
spellcaster.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.


Fourth Level Magic-user Spells

Bestow Curse reduces the targets THAC0 and saving throws by 4.  Usable
by White Robe Mages only.

Charm Monster changes the target's allegiance in combat so it fights
on the side of the magic-user.  The spell will work on most living
creatures.  The spell affects 2-8 one hit-die targets, 1-4 two hit-die
targets, 1-2 three hit-die targets, or 1 target of four or more hit
dice.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Confusion affects 2-16 targets, causing them to make a saving throw
each round or stand confused, become enraged, flee in terror, or go
berserk.  Confusion is most effective when used against a large number
of enemies.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Dimension Door allows the magic-user to teleport himself to another
point on the battlefield within his line of sight and the range of the
spell.  Magic-users can use it for quick escapes.  Fighter/magic-users
can use dimension door to reach enemy spellcasters or ranged weapons.
Usable by Red Robe Mages only.

Fear causes all within its area to flee terror if they fail their
saving throws.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.

Fire Shield protects the magic-user so that any creature who hits the
caster in melee does normal damage, but takes twice that damage in
return.  The shield may be attuned to heat attacks or cold attacks.
The magic-user takes half damage (no damage if he makes his saving
throw) and has his saving throw from the opposite type of attack
improved by 2.  He takes double damage from the type of attack the
shield is attuned to.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Fumble causes the target to become clumsy and unable to move or
attack.  If the target makes his saving throw, his attacks and
movement are halved.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Ice Storm does 3-30 hit points to all targets within its area.  There
is no saving throw.  This spell will even inflict full damage on
opponents protected by resist cold.  Usable by both Red and White Robe
Mages.

Minor Globe of Invulnerability protects the caster from incoming
first, second, or third level spells.  The globe is very effective
when used in combination with fire shield.  Usable by White Robe Mages
only.

Remove Curse removes the effects of bestow curse and allows the target
to unready cursed magic items.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.


Fifth Level Magic-user Spells

Cloud Kill is similar to the stinking cloud spell, except that its
area of effect is larger and it kills weaker monsters.  More powerful
monsters may be immune to the spell.  Usable by both Red and White
Robe Mages.

Cone of Cold unleashes a withering cone-shaped blast of cold.  The
spell's range and damage increases with the caster's level.  Usable by
both Red and White Robe Mages.

Feeblemind causes targets who fail their saving throw to drop
dramatically in intelligence and wisdom and become unable to cast
spells.  A heal spell must be cast on the victim to recover from the
effect.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Fire Touch creates a blazing aura around the recipient.  This aura
adds 2-12 points of extra fire damage to all of the recipient attacks.
Usable by Red Robe Mages Only.

Hold Monster is similar to hold person, except that it affects a wider
variety of creatures.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Iron Skin causes the magic-user's skin to become extremely tough and
damage resistant.  The magic-user's AC is reduced by four.  Usable by
Red Robe Mages Only.


Sixth Level Magic-user Spells

Death Spell kills opponents instantly and irrevocably.  The spell will
slay a greater number of weak opponents than strong.  Usable by Red
and White Robe Mages.

Disintegrate destroys one target.  Some creatures with an innate magic
resistance may avoid the effects of the spell, however must make a
saving throw to survive.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.

Flesh to Stone causes the target to make a saving throw or be turned
into stone.  Usable by Red Robe Mages Only.

Globe of Invulnerability protects against 1st through 4th level
spells.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Stone to Flesh counters the effects of such magical creatures as the
medusa or the spell flesh to stone.  When this spell is cast on a
character, there is a possibility that the character will not survive
the shock of being restored to flesh.  System shock survival is based
on a character's constitution.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.


Seventh Level Magic-user Spells

Delayed Blast Fireball is a more powerful version of the third level
spell and will go through a minor globe of invulnerability.  Usable by
both Red and White Robe Mages.

Mass Invisibility is identical to the invisibility spell, except that
it will effect several targets at once.  This can be a valuable spell
to cast before a known encounter.  Usable by Red Robe Mages only.

Power Word, Stun will cause one creature to be stunned and unable to
think or act effectively.  The weaker the target, the longer it will
be stunned.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.


Eighth Level Magic-User Spells

Mass Charm is similar to the fourth-level spell, except that it
affects a much larger number of targets.  Usable by White Robe Mages
only.

Mind Blank is a powerful protective spell that defends the recipient
from all spells that attack a character's will, such as charm or
feeblemind.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Otto's Irresistible Dance is an enchantment that causes the target to
be irresistibly compelled to dance a wild and frenzied jig.  The
target's AC is reduced by 4 and it will fail all saving throws against
magic.  Usable by White Robe Mages only.

Power Word, Blind strikes a target instantly blind.  Usable by both
Red and White Robe Mages.


Ninth Level Magic-User Spells

Meteor Swarm is a very powerful and spectacular spell, similar to a
fireball.  When cast, four magical spheres fly from the caster's hand
toward the target.  Anything in the spell's path receives 10-40 hit
points of damage.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Monster Summoning calls forth one or two powerful creatures to fight
on the side of the spell magic-user.  The creatures disappear after
the battle.  Usable by both Red and White Robe Mages.

Power Word, Kill will instantly slay one or more creatures within the
spell's range.  The spell affects approximately 120 hit points worth
of targets.  Usable by both the Red and White Robe Mages.


JOURNAL ENTRIES

Journal Entry 1
The Hag's Problem

"My name is Eshalla.  Not long ago, I was shopping in the Imperial
City, just minding my own business.  All of a sudden, I looked down
and saw this coin purse lying in the street.  I innocently picked it
up and this brutish minotaur grabbed me by the arm and accused me of
stealing his purse! I broke free and called him an ugly cow-faced
spawn of a gnome.  It was all I could do! He took this quite
personally, and roared in anger.  He signaled to a mage who was in
attendance, and before I could run away.....poof! I am as you see me,
a withered hag, with bad teeth, and not a friend in the world."


Journal Entry 2
Dragonmen Justice

The elders of the dragonmen finish their council and the eldest
approaches you.  "Your talk, no money.  Zarketh, no guide.  No money.
You talk, no money, truth talk?" His speech is hard to understand, but
Zarketh translates for you: "You may give witness, but you will get no
money in return.  And they will not permit me to be guide, as I swore.
'Let the drylanders flounder and sink,' they say."


Journal Entry 3
The Guard's Tale

"Eons ago, before the minotaurs arrived on the shores of Kristophan
and claimed the city for their own, my wife and I were members of
royalty.  The minotaurs forced us into slavery, and we labored each
day with barely enough food to survive.

"With our children starving, my beloved wife stole some crusts of
bread.  An old cow caught her and we were both quickly sentenced to an
eternity of agony.  My wife was locked in this cell, where each day
she perishes anew from hunger.  I was condemned to stand guard at her
door, lest anyone try to rescue her from this misery.  The only thing
that will break this spell is the Heart-Shaped Key, which will unlock
the door and unite us again.  Alas, the key was hidden ages ago,
somewhere in the depths of the Tomb."


Journal Entry 4
Treachery

You awake with Baldrich's strange music still playing over and over in
your heads.  All of your money is gone, as are several of your magical
items.  Worst of all, the priceless dragon scale is nowhere to be
found.


Journal Entry 5
The Elevator

Looking up, you see jagged pipes and cracked walls as light trickles
out of dozens of hallways every ten feet up.  Before you, where some
sort of intricate platform used to be, sits a huge, hot air bag
floating above a large basket.  Two gnomes, dressed in jackets, caps
and white gloves, come to attention at your approach.  They awkwardly
raise a hand to their foreheads and bid you greetings.  Tas says
"They're kind of new at this." Other gnomes squeal, "More people to
test the new lift!"

The well dressed gnomes usher you in, then nervously climb in with
you.  The other gnome swings a large pipe over from the wall and sets
the end under the bag floating over your heads.  He yells, "Clear!"
and all of the gnomes fall to the floor of the basket just as hot
scalding steam gushes out, blasting you in the face.  The bag rises,
and you bump and crash your way up the shaft.

You hear a voice below saying "................well, if they weren't
so tall.."


Journal Entry 6
Tasslehoff Burrfoot

"After the War of the Lance, I was bored and someone told me about the
marak kender, here on the Taladas.  I was curious and made my way
over.  There was this ship and such.  But have you met the marak?
They- they're as uninteresting as life gets.  They worry and complain
and it's hard to believe we're even related.  Then a passing dragon
mentioned the old elves here in Tualtin.  So I came to visit."


Journal Entry 7
Thenol King
"Many come to tell me that my alliance with the draconians is a
mistake.  They rant how the draconians have some dark purpose that
will kill us all.  Balderdash! The power of Thenol is on the rise, and
they will rush with us to glory.  See how carefully they guard my own
person and Trandamere, my valued councilor, in Hawkbluff.

"These same people used to tell me that the priesthood of Hith was bad
for Thenol.  And see how wrong they were.  Since the Catacalysm, we
have been the most resourceful and adaptable of peoples.  It is the
great Thenolian gift."


Journal Entry 8
Landed

You followed the monsters that landed ashore.
They killed and they burned, but also found friends.
In the men who bring fact to the dire Sharkmen's lore.


Journal Entry 9
Mirror

"We have something in common now, travelers.  We are both among the
very few to have foiled the careful plans of Raistlin Majere.  For
that you have my grudging respect, but no less hatred, of course.

"You think you have defeated me, but of course you are quite wrong.
You are mortals; do not dare to think more than mortal thoughts, lest
you join Raistlin.

"One day you will grow old, and weak, or foolish.  Meanwhile my malice
goes on and on, growing stronger, deeper, more subtle.  Which is why I
propose this bargain to you."


Journal Entry 10
Fastillion Speaks

"Hmmm, well then, I suppose it's a good thing you came after all.
There's evil at work in Thenol to the south, you know.  Or I suppose
you don't know and that's why you're here, isn't it? Well, yes,
there's evil at work in Thenol, and Trandamere's probably behind it.
He's sworn to conquer all Taladas, actually.  Never was such a nice
guy, that Trandamere.  The draconians are up to no good, and Thenol's
involved, no doubt about it.

"The Hulderfolk might help.  Probably would in fact.  You can find
them to the east of Trilloman.  But the price is high; the price is
always high.  And you ought to go find the Oracle of Tengur in the
Tombs of Kristophan.  You can't beat the Oracle for a good augury.
And that's what you need most likely, a good augury.  I had the keys
to the inner chambers of the Tombs here somewhere."


Journal Entry 11
A Saddened Captain Daenor

"I kept my vow but slew Crysia in its keeping.  My heart is heavy, for
she was all in Krynn that I had.  Forgive me, friends, for there is no
greater torment than failure." The captain's eyes rise darkly. "Let
these draconians beware, for vengeance lurking within my heart!"


Journal Entry 12
Shards
<IMG SRC="DQK_AJ21.GIF">
JOURNAL ENTRY 12


No Journal Entry 13


Journal Entry 14
Shipwreck

"One of our number spied your ship in distress and summoned others.
We sped like arrows, but when we arrived the ship was already in
pieces.  We pulled all the landfolk out, cast spells upon them, and
brought them to our city Naulidis.  The ship's crew proved to be a
superstitious lot, ill-suited to life undersea, and so we sent them
back to Ansalon. 'Tis strange to me that they who spend their life on
the sea should be so fearful of what is underneath it, but so it is."


Journal Entry 15
Staff

In the Thenol state, find a staff
Wield its power, exert its might
Strike down the gnomes and hesitate not,
Steel your nerve, your task is right!


Journal Entry 16
Void

You stand upon a vast undulating plain.  It seems featureless, but as
you look more closely, here and there, a bit of ruins juts above the
sand.  Suddenly, on a wave of despair, all the lore you've ever heard
about the Abyss comes flooding back into your minds.  You remember
hearing about how whole houses, ships, and cities, doomed by pride,
hate, or treachery, have been thrown into the Abyss.  And how those
doomed to sojourn here, end up begging others for death, a boon that
is seldom granted.  You recall hearing that the abishai, minions that
dwell here, maniacally claw each other to reach the Red Gate of
Wyrllish, where they are reincarnated as draconians.  You remember the
immense price that the hero Huma made to banish Takhisis, creator of
all evil, to this loathsome plane.  And finally you recall the folk
wisdom about the Abyss: "Easy to get into.  Impossible to leave."


Journal Entry 17
Tremor

"You may think us cowards, but we are the noblest of creatures,
toiling under our Burden.  Because we chose not to fight Takhisis'
battles for her during the Wars of the Lance, she struck a scale from
the chest of Kothar, our leader, and cursed away our confidence.
Since then, the leader of the red othlorx has had Kothar's blemish,
and our Burden shall remain until the scale is returned.

"But now the puny Thenolites invade our realm! If not for the Burden,
we would drive them back in fear and ruin!" Tremor lowers his head.
"It is not just.  Baldranous and the other othlorx defend us, as is
only right, but the Burden is so great, we curse Takhisis every day!"
As Tremor turns away, you notice a scale missing from his chest.


Journal Entry 18
Air Shaft

The sounds echo so much they are barely recognizable.  Noises of
machinery blend with the clash of weapons and the bellow of fire
creatures.  Then the unmistakable shout of a kender taunting his foes
reverberates through the shaft.  Tasslehoff Burrfoot is going into
combat!


Journal Entry 19
The Draconian's Scroll

"Commander Barath -

You are hereby granted leave to make any and all arrangements with the
Thenolian government necessary to acquire their full cooperation.  Do
not concern yourself with the particulars of promises made, as we have
no intention of fulfilling them.  Consider the Thenols a tool to be
used and discarded when no longer useful.  Pass this information on as
necessary to subordinates, then destroy this message." At the bottom
of the scroll is an impressive seal.


Journal Entry 20
The Black Robed One

The hood falls to the shoulders of the black robed figure.  The pale
mage smiles cruelly, "I see you have received my call.  I am glad to
see you, my fine champions.  I need your help in order to succeed with
my plan."

He casually waves a thin hand before you.  Suddenly, your vision
begins to blur and you begin to feel dizzy. "My plan is to stop you
before you can interfere with Her Highness' plan.  I see you will not
be a problem.... not a problem at all."

As you fall to your knees, you see the mage's face twist and stretch
into the hideous countenance of a draconian.  As its coarse laughter
fills the chamber, everything goes black.


Journal Entry 21
The Great Oracle

"Centuries ago, a group of humans marched from Styrillia in search of
a home.  Led by the great Kristophus, their trek brought them here,
where they began construction of a city.  But soon, the Minotaurs
arrived from far off Ansalon and claimed this land for their own.

"Eragas the Brutish became the new emperor and at his side was the
human Oracle of Tengur.  The Oracle led the emperor wisely in his
conquests, and for this, some have called him a traitor.  That is a
lie! The Oracle used his position to win rights for the humans and the
other conquered races.  In exchange for his wisdom, the Minotaurs
swore to enslave only a fraction of those whose lands they annexed.
This is a promise that is kept to this day.

"When he died, the Oracle's spirit was hidden somewhere within the
city walls, until it could be put to good use once again."


Journal Entry 22
The Truth

"Don't believe everything you hear," continues Lord Trandamere,
puffing on his pipe as he relaxes on the sofa. "Fastillion's had it in
for me since I booted him out of Thenol for counterfeiting coin of the
realm.  He made himself a sizable fortune passing around fool's gold,
before we wised up to his tricks.  Last I heard, he was hanging his
hat in a lighthouse up in the League someplace, mooning after some
mermaid doxy.  Anyway, I could use your help, controlling those
dragonmen which are making life miserable for folks around here.
Interested?"


Journal Entry 23
The Sensitive Minotaur

"Superiority is clearly the right of all minotaurs.  But, do not let
this great gift of work against you! How easy it is to belittle,
insult, or even trample our servants.  It is indeed our right to do
so, but it may be in our favor to show occasional restraint.

"It is natural for other races to be resentful, or even to feel hatred
toward our their betters.  These feelings may lead to inefficiency and
sloth.  So next time, instead of flogging your human slave, try a
gentle reprimand, or even a kind word, like, 'I am not angry at you,
only at the result of your actions.' This will instill more confidence
in your slave, which may actually blossom into affection towards you.
Remember, 'a happy slave is a productive slave.'

"In these modern times, we must be more sensitive to the feelings of
those beneath us.  It may be time to put behind that old adage; 'If
you weren't born with horns, you were born to be scorned.'"


Journal Entry 24
Anthela

"We had been holding off the Sharkmen for months.  But then the
draconians came.  They were well armed and organized, and the soon
killed all who resisted.  When the fighting was over, they went north.
They said they would breed more draconians on the shores of the Lava
Sea.  It is a dreadful prospect.

"After the draconians left, the Sharkman began forcing us to build
boats.  Hundreds and hundreds of boats.  I don't know why they want
the boats; it makes no sense.  We might have thrown off the yoke of
the Sharkmen, but there are dragons in the woods to the north, and no
one dares to oppose them.

"You must not stay here! Go to the great gnome citadel of Aldinanachru
on the northwest of the Lava Sea.  The gnomes are enemies to the
Minions of Hiteh.  Perhaps they can stop the draconians.  I love
Bai'or dearly, but what is the good of fighting Sharkmen if the
draconians will soon conquer the lands? Go now and warn the gnomes.
Do not incite the wrath of dragons to the north, or there may be no
one left when you return.....no one left in Bai'or."


<IMG SRC="DQK_AJ25.GIF">
JOURNAL ENTRY 25


Journal Entry 26
Some Relief

"And the gnomes really want to help, too.  But the King said, 'Help is
completely out of the question at this point in time!'" Tas raises his
head and mimics the King. "'Our own situation is a parliament of
importance!'" Captain Daenor begins to smile and chuckle, then, as
Tasslehoff begins stumbling around the room wiggling his head and
crashing into things, Daenor bursts into hysterical laughter and says,
"The good gnome peoples do not appreciate this unwarranted
interruption in their daily schedules!"

All of the past weeks of worry and frustration pour out of Daenor in
waves of laughter.


Journal Entry 27
Grunschka's Oath

The she-dwarf grins crookedly, as she holds the glowing Grathanitch in
her hand. "My mother once told me, 'Every man for himself!' and my
time has come.  The Dark Queen is dead, the draconians are all gone.
You don't need me anymore or this either."

The stone's power courses through the dwarf, filling her until she
begins to swell. "It's mine! I feel myself growing stronger, bigger.
Soon, I'll be unbeatable.  I could be King of the World...I mean
Queen."


Journal Entry 28
Present

Find the realm where Tremor is lord.
Choose the right present to add to his hoard.


Journal Entry 29
Ritual Words

Limene: 'We will do that instantly.'
Bilbara: 'We politely but firmly decline.'
Shuwara: 'We block our ears to language of that sort.'
Holbani: 'Your humor is your greatest treasure.'
Gebene: 'We have peace in our hearts.'


Journal Entry 30
First Temple

The desolate valley is dominated by a towering pillar of
rock-Hawkbluff!  Beneath the crag are assembled the shops, offices,
and other buildings that serve those who visit the abode of Lord
Trandamere.  For miles now, there have been a constant stream of
zealous pilgrims traveling to the great Temple of Hith, high atop
Hawkbluff.  And amongst them were rich and well-armed processions of
the Lords and Senators coming to consult with the influential
Trandamere.  But all on the road give wide berth to the undead
legions.  Led by Hith fanatics and necromancers, they patrol here and
all over Thenol.


Journal Entry 31
A Word of Warning

"Let's see, here is the village of Vinlans, and to the east are the
Sikoni Mountains.  The vast forest to the east of that is the realm of
the Hulderfolk.  As strangers to these lands, you must be wary of
them.  Every thief might not be of the Hulderfolk, but every
Hulderfolk is a thief.  They are renowned for stealing wagons from
moving caravans, horses from under riders, and even children from
their mother's bosom.  Stay far away, else these boons I give you will
go for naught.  You must use this key to enter the tombs of New Aurim
through the temple.  Tell the priest that I have sent you and you have
come to receive a special blessing."


Journal Entry 32
The Hideous Cavern

The foul cavern is covered with mounds of filth, decay, and rotting
corpses.  Some of these corpses are those of enormous spider and huge
bats.  Others are of humanoid form.  The stench is overwhelming.  Torn
and rotting flesh is mixed with something even fouler.  The only
illumination is a pale green light which comes from all around you.
By the light of this hideous glow, you suddenly see forms rising from
the mounds of filth.


Journal Entry 33
Talhook

"I woke.  Everyone was gone.  Something was wrong! I hid under the
bed.  Soon some sea-devils came in.  One was swimming around and
around the room, proclaiming to others where he would place his
possessions, when he came to rule.  The others called him Lord Prince
Talhook.  Then a sea dragon arrived! I could not understand his talk,
but Talhook could. 'You will get your eggs back when the elves are
under my command,' he said. 'Not before.  Obey me, or I will cook your
progeny.' After the dragon left, the sea-devils all snickered."


Journal Entry 34
Friends

A dragon you'll meet, more mighty than all.
To stop its rampage, seek help from three friends:
The black robed, the winged ones, and also the small.


Journal Entry 35
Palace

The first thing you notice is that like the rest of New Aurim, the
Palace is decrepit.  Pools of water stain what once were glossy marble
floors.  Cracks web the fine stone walls.  The smell of decay is
everywhere.  But ahead you see something solid and new.  The way is
barred by a guard station built of hard stone and gates of cold steel.


Journal Entry 36
A Letter From Trandamere

"It has come to my attention that the draconians being sent to their
encampment at Hawkbluff have not been arriving.  Your report that
younger creatures are too willful for the Thenol Army is unacceptable.

"I have discussed this with Yanorak and he will accept all returned
draconians for discipline and indoctrination.  In the interim, all of
your warehouses, taverns, and farms should be regularly patrolled to
collect these young draconian recruits and return them to the rear
door of the palace.

"In addition, you are to sign a squad of guards to escort each group
of draconians to Hawkbluff to prevent them from wandering off.
Hopefully this will greatly improve the size of draconian army."


Journal Entry 37
Advice

"Travel north, my friends, and soon you will come upon an ancient
lighthouse.  For eons, the light has guided sailors through the
dangerous shoals of the Tiderun.

"Legend has it that the tower is deserted, except for whatever magic
keeps it glowing.  But I know that there is a keeper, and his wisdom
is profound.  Seek his aid and you will be richly rewarded.  But be
warned, strangers are not welcome in the ancient tower, and reaching
its pinnacle may prove to be a dangerous task."


Journal Entry 38
Martha

Davik chatters incessantly through the grill of the locked door.
"Betray my Trandamere, will you? No you won't.  No you won't.  I'll
show you what happens to those who try to betray my Trandamere! I
built this place so I should know.  I should.  Yes, I should.  Now
Martha here is very old, very nasty when she's hungry.  And I dare say
it's been many years since she last ate.  Yes, I dare say so.  But
that won't be the case long now, will it be Martha dear? No, not long
at all.  Not long at all.  Ha ha! Ha ha! Ha ha! Ha ha ha ha ha!"


Journal Entry 39
Sensilan's Final Words

Choking back tears, Daenor cradles the old man's head. "Sensilan, my
old friend.  It's all right now, it's almost over.  Soon you'll be
right back at the town."

"Daenor, it gives me great pleasure to see your face again.  But, it
is too late for me, I only have a few minutes left.  Oteef and I tried
to escape, but we became lost in the labyrinth.  I pray that he has
made it to freedom.  Daenor, have you found Crysia?"

The Captain bows his head in grief. "Yes, we have found her.  She is
with....them."

Sensilan clutches his hand. "Daenor, Crysia is caught in a powerful
charm spell.  She will flee from you and fight on the side of evil."
The old man begins to cough violently.  He wipes the blood from his
lips and continues, "When you find her, you must break the spell or
she will be lost forever."

The old man begins to cough again and then he is still.  His head
slumps against Daenor's chest.  The Captain begins to sob quietly.


Journal Entry 40
The Bard

Your first warning is the tinkling of silver bells.  Then, who should
walk up but a fat, cheery bard, strumming a strident chord on a lyre.
"Hello! I am Balearic.  Pleased to meet you! I was just going out to
look for work, but then I saw you.  Perhaps I can entertain you? Oh,
you may wonder how a mere bard can survive this swamp.  Well, I have
some small talent for soothing the ruffled beast." With this, he
strums another cacaphonous chord.


Journal Entry 41
Words

The bright key opens the double door to the crypt.
Within you will find some words you should heed.
Then find the Book that Amrocar wrote.
Within its pages, words you must read.


Journal Entry 42
The War Council

The king's advisors file into the room and take their seats at the
enormous table.  King Telemandarklosminarus IV enters, wrapped from
head to toe in blankets. "It's fr-eep-freezing in here!" Suddenly, the
door bursts open and Baldric storms into the room. "Friends! I come
bearing grave news.  The draconian army is even larger than we had
feared!"

Driven by this new information, the Council agrees to a threefold
plan.  The elite corps of gnome warriors, the Company of the Dead,
will ride in the firefleets and attack the lower region of the Tower
of Flame.  The gnome army, accompanied by Baldric, Tremor, and
Tasslehoff, will march on the draconian camp to the south.  Meanwhile,
you will ride the windships and infiltrate the Tower from the top
balconies while the Dragons guarantee your safe entrance.

Just then, a gnome bursts into the room. "The clouds over the Lava Sea
have become the face of the dark goddess Erestem." There is no time to
lose, the Dark Queen has descended!


Journal Entry 43
Barber's Gossip

"Ah, your hair is long I see, but not as long as one of my recent
customers.  You see, I cut the hair of Temple prisoners, those
prestigious enough to get a last audience with His Lordship
Trandamere.  Just the other day, I gave Davik the 'royal treatment,'
so to speak.  You don't know Davik? Why, he's the architect of the
Temple.  Quite a celebrated man until he, well, you know.  Every so
often, His Eminent Lordship forgets how to open a secret lock or where
a particular passage goes, and hauls Davik out of the dungeon to
demonstrate.  Davik is a good customer; he sits still, and doesn't
talk much.  Well, there you go, fresh as can be!"


Journal Entry 44
Glorius Thenol!

After our army crushed the remains of the Armach invaders were
surrounded at Neul, the famed Thenolite army successfully repulsed the
attack by the minotaur cows and their human toadies from across the
Drungar Frontier.  Gathering the carrion of our enemies, our beloved
priests of Hith assembled a massive army of undead minotaurs and
humans.  Together with specially trained servants of Hith, our forces
destroyed two ordines of the League overrun during our advance through
the Spindle Gap.  With the minotaurs in retreat, our armies are again
victorious with the aid of Hith.

Peace is at hand, all give thanks to Hiddukul.  You can help preserve
the peace with a prayer at the Hith Temple.  If you're down on your
luck, ask for a special blessing.  The Church of Hith is always
willing to help the less fortunate.


Journal Entry 45
Eric Strongbond

"Have you seen all the boats in our small harbor? To think that just a
few short months ago, Bai'or was an insignificant little village.  Now
just look at us! Why, it makes a man proud to be part of something
like this.  Soon we'll have a boat fro every man, woman, and child in
Bai'or, and the gods will reward us with great riches.  It just goes
to show what can be accomplished when everyone pulls together and
works as a team!"


Journal Entry 46
Fastillion

"One of those opens the inner chambers of the Tombs.  That should
help." He glances down at his models and seems lost in thought.  Then
he looks up. "I did notice that you've been fighting beholders.  I can
see the signs of it on your armor.  There weren't supposed to be evil
things in my tower.  The gorgons are supposed to keep them out.  I bet
they were working with the beholders weren't they? Hmff.  I really
should get around to training them.  Oh well, time flies."


Journal Entry 47
The Mayor's Story

"Thank you, thank you, kind champions.  Those monsters destroyed our
beautiful town and then herded us on board a ship like cattle.  They
forced Aolan, a great sailor, to steer the ship, and to sail straight
across the ocean.  We told them there was nothing there, that they
were mad.  Then they struck us and told us not to ask questions.

"While the monsters were busy fighting among themselves, Aolan steered
the ship onto the rocks, hoping to give us a chance to escape.  But
fate was cruel, the ship did not sink immediately.  The monsters were
able to drag us ashore and into these accursed caves.  As for Aolan,
they rewarded his brave act by slitting his throat.  He died a hero.

"These monsters speak freely in front of us.  They constantly complain
about not being able to complete their great journey to the other side
of the world.  They say the Dark Queen will be very displeased with
them.  I hope she strikes them all dead!"

"As for that wench, Crysia, I know her well.  The traitor! They chose
her from among us, and soon we saw her caring and grooming these
disgusting monsters.  Now they allow her to move around freely, as if
she were one of them.  She deserves to be sent to the Abyss, where she
can spend eternity with her consorts."


Journal Entry 48
The Tavern Song

There was an old skeleton named Trey.
Who comes to life when they pray.
His handler cut down, while charging a town,
He bounces 'gainst their wall to this day.


Journal Entry 49
Tear Goodbye

You overhear his wife saying, "You're going to get yourself killed!
You've never even flown one of those stupid things before! How am I
supposed to raise our children without you?" Perkelanamord whispers,
"If I don't go, our children may never get the chance to grow up."

On that note, he abruptly turns and crashes headlong into the band
drummer, who falls over, thumping the tuba player in the stomach with
his mallet.  With an echoing "Pphblaaaaat-oofff," the tuba falls
forward knocking the band leader senseless with a thud.  The leader
falls, arms flailing for balance, and pokes the flutist in the eye
with his stick.  Grimacing with pain, the woman bites off the end of
her flute and swallows it, gasping and wheezing for air.  The marching
song suddenly turns into a hideous cacophony of groans, wheezes, and
thumps.

Perkelanamord hurries away muttering, "Oops, sorry, I didn't...
sorry," as his wife falls screaming to the ground, tears blubbering
down her round, little face.


Journal Entry 50
Instructions for Preparation of Black Pudding

Black pudding is considered a delicacy in the Fire Fleet, particularly
after several months on the Boiling Sea.  As black pudding is a
ravenous carnivore, it first must be caught, before being prepared for
consumption.  Pages 2,976,341 through 3,123,882 of Volume LXXIII of
Thrapskaddidlogrumpanaciouslaxzitinity's semi-authoritative study of
monster hunting, How People Try to Catch Monsters, contain some 8,647
methods for acquiring puddings.  Many of these techniques are not
recommended, as they leave the black pudding in an inedible form.
Black pudding must be kept in secure ceramic containers prior to
cooking, to limit damage to culinary personnel.

Special long-handled asbestos ladles are ideal for transporting black
pudding from these containers to the deck of the vessel.  They are
used also for cooking the black pudding.  Black pudding is
traditionally cooked by immersion in boiling lava.
(Drikulomengrabaciflatorengulixfreibie, Navigating the Burning Sea,
page 323, column 77), although the breath of a cooperative red or gold
dragon may be substituted in a pinch.  Four to five minutes of
immersion per pint of black pudding is a reasonable cooking time;
properly cooked black pudding will have a syrupy, gelatinous texture.
Extreme care must be taken not to serve undercooked black pudding;
catastrophic cases of indigestion may result from improper
preparation.

After removing the black pudding from the boiling lava, it must be set
aside for about three hours, until the coating of basalt has fully
congealed.  After chipping off the basalt, the black pudding should be
seasoned liberally with celebdil, ground caradhras, and fanuidhol
seeds, then served hot.  One quart of black pudding should serve two
to three gnomes, unless they are especially hungry.  Leftover black
pudding may be served for several weeks, although its consistency will
suffer.


Journal Entry 51
The Foethumper

"The Foethumper is the weapon of a minoi warrior," says Benikobawoni,
"not as random or clumsy as a broadsword -- a complicated weapon for a
complex era."


<IMG SRC="DQK_AJ32.GIF">
JOURNAL ENTRY 52


Journal Entry 53
Caramon's Quest

"If you know where I can find Raistlin, please tell me.  I must find
him, something has happened.  Without his help Tika will die.
I......I couldn't go on without her, not after everything that has
happened.  I'm sure you know where I can find my brother.  You must
tell me!" Tears spring to the big man's eyes as he slowly unsheathes
his sword and steps toward you.


Journal Entry 54
The General

"It has been but a short time since you so valiantly helped us crush
the draconian army.  Yet, such is the nature of these creatures, that
to sever the head from the beast only invites it to grow another.  My
emissaries have reported that some draconian scum may have survived,
and we are again gathering to the south.  We must know if this is
true.  Every day we wait is foolhardy, for the danger may be growing.

"But, the good people of Palanthas deserve the hard-won peace they now
enjoy.  From time to time, I still see the shadows of old fears
fleeting across their faces.  I will not add to their troubles by
letting this unproven rumor reach their ears.  That is why I implore
you, brave heroes, to hasten to Caergoth, and discover what truth
there is in these fearful reports."


Journal Entry 55
The Strange Dragon

"I am without hope.  Sssuch a thing hasss never been done asss they
did to me.  Cursssse them.

"In the Tower of Flame they made my egg, by the Ssstone of Grathanich.
They wanted a body for Eressstem.  A perfect body for a god to enter
the world.  Sssso the draconiansss made me.... but I wasss flawed, a
missstake, a failure.  Yet the foolsss continue.  They make othersss.
Finally they will sssuccsseed, and Ssshe will enter.  Ssshe will
become invincible.  Sssshe will rule Taladassss, and then Ssshe will
rule the world.  Curssse them!"


Journal Entry 56
Fable of the Stone

"The god Reorx taught the smart gnomoi art of the fogue and machine,
pleased he be.  He taught them to some humans and not pleased he be.
Stupid they were with their power so cursed they becamed into the
stupid minoi soon.

"But the god was good and gave a gift to King Aldinachru.  A stone he
filled with the light and power of the big moon Luminari.  The
Grathanich they were proud to own.

"Then, the bad god Hiteh tricked some little minoi into letting the
stone go.  It drifted and burned, wreaked havoc to the west.  So to
punish these minoi, it was made so they must follow the stone from
here to there.  And there was the big island, far away, where one day
the minoi stopped to live under a mountain.  Nevermind."


Journal Entry 57
The Rescue

The old woman's eyes light up. "You aren't monsters! You're people!
Oh, thank Paladine! I escaped from the monsters yesterday and fled
into these lower caves, hoping to find a way out.  But the draconians
pale in comparison to the monsters that fill these caverns, and I was
afraid to go further.  I found this wand and necklace on a body I
stumbled upon.  With them I was able to send many of these foul
creatures back to the Abyss.  If the draconians are no longer a
threat, I'm sure I can find my way to the mouth of the cave.  There is
a small village not far from here, and I can take refuge there.
Farewell, my friends." She turns to leave, but then adds, "Oh, here,
why don't you take this." She removes the necklace and hands it to
you. "You certainly look like you can handle yourselves, but you may
be able to use this."


Journal Entry 58
Tas' Final Words

Tas grips your arm feebly. "This wasn't supposed to happen! I can't
die, I have too many things to do...places to go." The kender coughs
pitifully, and clutches his chest. "I always thought you could trust
gnomes....they're just so trustworthy.  But....look, I .....I can see
Flint sitting under a tree, he's calling me....  Flint....I'm
coming...." The kender's frail body goes limp, and quickly grows cold.


Journal Entry 59
Captain's Story

"Hundreds of draconians invaded, pillaging the town and impounding the
entire fleet of ships.  Only those who could steer the ships were
spared, everyone else either escaped or was slaughtered.

"Once they took what they wanted, a horde of blue dragons leveled the
buildings and incarcerated anyone trying to take refuge.  The monsters
then sailed out to sea, leaving this village a charred ruin.

"I can wait no longer! I must set sail and follow the loathsome
beasts.  My sister, Crysia, is among those kidnapped!"


Journal Entry 60
Greeting From a Hith Temple Servant

The man with a shaved head and loosely draped robes approaches you,
carrying a large pointed stick in one hand and a basket of flowers in
the other. "Hale ye travelers from afar, would ye care to donate to
the Church of Hiddukel in exchange for a special flower?"


Journal Entry 61
Tasslehoff Explains

"After you guys left, I had the best time with the elves.  But once,
when we were playing hide-and-seek, I hid so well the elves could
never find me! Then I found my new friend.  You'll like him, he's
looking for the draconians, too.  He says we need the gnome armies and
windships to stop these draconians, but King Teleman-something or
other says he's much too busy to be worrying about dragons.

"You see, there are two different kinds of gnomes: the smart Gnomoi,
gnomes who do all the inventing and designing, and the fun Minoi
gnomes, like the onles in Ansalon, who get stuck doing all the work.
Well, the King says he doesn't want his people to be separated into
classes anymore, so he had all the gnomes just switch jobs.  And, boy,
are things crazy in there! And dangerous too!

"Come on, I'll show you where the lift is, or, um.....was, I guess."


Journal Entry 62
Another

I see flames and an egg and a crack and a head,
Then another, and another, and another, and more.
She rises up, the Queen of the Dark,
She conquers and rules leaving only the dead.


Journal Entry 63
Amrocar's Book

"The book is a worthless text written one hundred years ago by the
wizard Amrocar.  Obsessed with the mysteries of the ruins in
Blackwater Glade, it is filled with useless maps and such.

"It had lain undisturbed for scores of years, when suddenly one of our
most trusted librarians, Bovinus, was caught stealing it.  A terrible
fight ensued.  In the end, three of our guards lay dead, and the
librarian had disappeared along with the tome.  "That is not all.  I
just learned that Bovinus' body has been found in an alleyway with his
throat slit.  But, who killed him, and where is the book now?"


<IMG SRC="DQK_AJ35.GIF">
JOURNAL ENTRY 64


Journal Entry 65
Rubble

Before you lies the smoldering ruins of Caergoth.  Everything is
blasted and burned.  Once sturdy buildings are sagging and melted;
their stone runs like candle wax.  The sickening odor of burnt carrion
floats on the gentle breeze as vultures circle through the smoke.

Then you notice the fuming pots of acid in the streets.  Draconians
have been here.  The only consolation is that some of them paid for
this abomination with their lives.


Journal Entry 66
The Grathanich

You quickly retrieve the small oblong box from behind the mirror.  The
box contains an oddly-shaped piece of gray stone, plain and unadorned,
yet seeming to pulsate with hidden power.

"The Grathanich!" gasps Tasslehoff, reaching out to the stone, "With
this artifact we can end the threat of the Dark Queen right here -- we
can unmake the race of draconians forever." He grasps the stone and
holds it up to the light.  "But what fun would that be?" he continues
with a crooked grin.  Before you can react, he drops the stone into a
pocket and scampers off into the darkness.


Journal Entry 67
Flamewalls

The walls of the Tower's inner core flare brightly, but there is no
heat.  Whatever mighty spell formed these walls, holds the living
flame trapped inside.  After a moment, you see shapes among the
dancing flames! You realize that the walls, ceiling, and floor swarm
with fire creatures, and that they are watching you.


Journal Entry 68
Othlorx

"Back during the War of the Lance, Takhisis called all her dragon
children to fight the forces of good.  But here on Taladas, many evil
dragons refused her call.  Furious, she cursed each kind of evil
dragon with a particular affliction.

"When the forces of Takhisis stole the eggs from the good dragons,
many traveled to Taladas to search for them.  When it was discovered
that the eggs were on Ansalon being corrupted into draconians, many of
the good dragons returned to Ansalon to fight in the War of the Lance.
But not all thought it was wise to join in a human's war.  Those who
stayed are shunned, quite unfairly, by the other good dragons.  Over
time, we outcast dragons have learned to work together against common
dangers.  We call ourselves 'othlorx.'"


TABLES

MAXIMUM LEVEL LIMITS BY RACE AND CLASS

CLASS    HUMANS  SILV.   QUAL.    HALF    HILL      MTH.      KENDER
                 ELVES   ELVES            ELVES     DWARVES   DWARVES
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Cleric     Max   Max     Max      Max     10        10        12
Fighter    Max   10      14       9       Max       Max       5
Paladin    Max   12      No       No      No        8         No
Ranger     Max   Max     Max      11      8         No        5
Knight     Max   No      No       10      No        No        No
Magic-user Max   Max     Max      10      No        No        No
Thief      Max   No      Max      Max     10        8         Max

No:  Characters of this race cannot be of this class
Max:  Highest Level Available in THE DARK QUEEN OF KRYNN


RANGE OF ABILITY SCORES BY RACE

ABILITY SCORE      STR       INT      WIS      DEX       CON      CHA
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humans          3-18(00)*    3-18     3-18     3-18      3-18     3-18
(Females)       3-18(50)*    3-18     3-18     3-18      3-18     3-18

Silvanesti
  Elves         3-18(75)*   10-18     6-18     7-19      6-18    12-18
(Females)       3-16        10-18     6-18     7-19      6-18    12-18

Qualinesti
  Elves         7-18(75)*    8-18     6-18     7-19      7-18     8-18
(Females)       3-16         8-18     6-18     7-19      7-18     8-18

Hill Dwarves    9-18(99)*    3-18     3-18     3-17     14-19     3-12
(Females)       3-17         3-18     3-18     3-17     14-19     3-12

Mountain
 Dwarves        8-18(99)*    3-18     3-18     3-17     12-19     3-16
(Females)       3-17         3-18     3-18     3-17     12-19     3-16

Half-Elves      3-18(90)*    4-18     3-18     6-18      6-18     3-18
(Females)       3-17         4-18     3-18     6-18      6-18     3-18

Kender(Both)    6-16         6-18     3-16     8-19     10-18     6-18

* Maximum percentage for 18 strength for fighter type classes only
(fighter, paladin, ranger, knight).


ABILITY SCORE MODIFIERS BY RACE

Race                  Modifiers
---------------------------------
Dwarf, Hill           Constitution+1, Charisma-1
Dwarf, Mountain       Constitution+1, Charisma-1
Elf, Qualinesti       Dexterity+1, Constitution-1
Elf, Silvanesti       Dexterity+1, Constitution-1
Half-Elf              None
Human                 None
Kender                Strength-1, Dexterity+2


STRENGTH TABLE
                                                      Weight Allowance
Ability Score      THC0 Bonus    Damage Adjustment    (in steel pieces)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
3                      -3               -1                  -350
4-5                    -2               -1                  -250
6-7                    -1               None                -150
8-9                  Normal             None               Normal
10-11                Normal             None               Normal
12-13                Normal             None                +100
14-15                Normal             None                +200
16                   Normal             +1                  +350
17                     +1               +1                  +500
18                     +1               +2                  +750
18(01-50)*             +1               +3                  +1000
18(51-75)*             +2               +3                  +1250
18(76-90)*             +2               +4                  +1500
18(91-99)*             +2               +5                  +2000
18(00)*                +3               +6                  +3000

* These bonuses only available to the fighter classes (fighter,
paladin, ranger, knight).


DEXTERITY TABLE
Ability Score       Reaction/Missle Bonus       AC Bonus
----------------------------------------------------------
 3                           -3                     +4
 4                           -2                     +3
 5                           -1                     +2
 6                            0                     +1
 7                            0                      0
 8                            0                      0
 9                            0                      0
 10                           0                      0
 11                           0                      0
 12                           0                      0
 13                           0                      0
 14                           0                      0
 15                           0                     -1
 16                          +1                     -2
 17                          +2                     -3
 18                          +3                     -4


CONSTITUTION TABLE

Ability Score      Hit Point Adjustment      Resurrection Survival
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 3                          -2                        40%
 4                          -1                        45%
 5                          -1                        50%
 6                          -1                        55%
 7                           0                        60%
 8                           0                        65%
 9                           0                        70%
 10                          0                        75%
 11                          0                        80%
 12                          0                        85%
 13                          0                        90%
 14                          0                        92%
 15                         +1                        94%
 16                         +2                        96%
 17                         +2(+3)*                   98%
 18                         +2(+4)*                   100%


ARMOR PERMITTED BY CHARACTER CLASS

Class          Max Armor           Shield
-------------------------------------------
Cleric           Any                Any
Fighter          Any                Any
Paladin          Any                Any
Ranger           Any                Any
Knight           Any                Any
Magic-User       None               None
Thief            Leather            None



MULTIPLE ATTACKS FOR FIGHTER-TYPE CHARACTERS

Class          Level        Attacks Per Round
-----------------------------------------------
Fighter         1-6                 1/1
Paladin         1-6                 1/1
Ranger          1-7                 1/1
Knight          1-6                 1/1
Fighter         7-12                3/2
Paladin         7-12                3/2
Ranger          8-14                3/2
Knight          7-12                3/2
Fighter         13+                 2/1
Paladin         13+                 2/1
Ranger          15+                 2/1
Knight          13+                 2/1


WEAPONS TABLE

Name                   Damage Vs.  Damage Vs. Larger   Number of    Class
                       Man Sized    Than Man Sized       Hands
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Axe, Battle                1-8           1-8              1           f
Axe, Hand                  1-6           1-4              1           f
Bow, Composite Long(1)     1-6           1-6              2           f
Bow, Composite Short(1)    1-6           1-6              2          f,th
Bow, Long(1)               1-6           1-6              2           f
Bow, Short(1)              1-6           1-6              2          f,th
Club                       1-6           1-3              1        f,cl,th
Crossbow, Light(2)         1-4           1-4              2           f
Dagger                     1-4           1-3              1        f,mu,th
Dart                       1-3           1-2              1        f,mu,th
Flail                      2-7           2-8              1          f,cl
Halberd                    1-10          2-12             2           f
Hammer                     2-5           1-4              1          f,cl
Hoopak(Melee)(3)           3-8           3-6              2        Special
Hoopak(Missile)(3)         2-5           2-7              2        Special
Javelin                    1-6           1-6              1           f
Mace                       2-7           1-6              1          f,cl
Morning Star               2-8           2-7              1           f
Pick, Military             2-7           2-8              1           f
Pike, Awl                  1-6           1-12             2           f
Scimitar                   1-8           1-8              1          f,th
Sling                      1-4           1-4              1          f,th
Sling, Staff               1-8           2-8              2          f,cl
SPear                      1-6           1-8              1           f
Staff, Quarter             1-6           1-6              2        f,mu,cl
Sword, Bastard             2-8           2-16             2          f,cl
Sword, Broad               2-8           2-7              1          f,th
Sword, Long                1-8           1-12             1          f,th
Sword, Short               1-6           1-8              1          f,th
Sword, 2-Handed            1-10          3-18             2           f
Trident                    2-7           3-12             1           f

1 - Must have ready arrows to fire.  Two attacks per round.
2 - Must have readu bolts to fire.  one attack per round.
3 - Only usable by kender characters.

f=fighter(paladin,ranger,knight) ; cl=cleric ; th=thief ; mu=magic-user

ARMOR TABLE
Armor Type         Weight in Sp.     Ac      Maximum Movement(1)
------------------------------------------------------------------
None                     0           10        12 Squares
Shield(2)               50            9             -
Leather                150            8        12 Squares
Padded                 100            8         9 Squares
Studded                200            7         9 Squares
Ring Mail              250            7         9 Squares
Scale Mail             400            6         6 Squares
Chain Mail             300            5         9 Squares
Elfin Chain Mail       150            5        12 Squares
Banded                 350            4         9 Squares
Spling Mail            400            4         6 Squares
Plate                  450            3         6 Squares

1 - A character carrying many objects, including a large number of
coins, can be limited in movement to a minimum of 3 squares per turn.
2 - A shield subtracts 1 AC from any armor it is used with.


SPELL PARAMETERS LIST

This is a listing of spells available to player characters as they
gain in level.  The following are abbreviations used in the list.

Cmbt = Combat only spell                    r = combat rounds
Camp = Camp only spell                      t = turns
Both = Camp or Combat spell              /lvl = per level of caster
   T = Touch Range                    targets = aim at each target
 dia = diameter                      ROBE(Magic-user spells only):
   s = squares                          WHITE = White Robe Mages
   c = cone                               RED = Red Robe Mages
 All = All characters in combat          BOTH = Can be cast by both



FIRST LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Bless                   Both     6     5 dia.    6r
Cure Light Wounds       Both     T       1       -
Detect Magic            Both     0       1       1t
Protection from Evil    Both     T       1       3r/lvl
Resist Cold             Both     T       1       1t/lvl


SECOND LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Find Traps              Camp     3      1       3t
Hold Person             Cmbt     6      1-3     4r+1/lvl
Resist Fire             Both     T      1       1t/lvl
Silence 15' Radius      Cmbt     12     3 dia   2r/lvl
Slow Poison             Both     T      1       1 hour/lvl
Snake Charm             Cmbt     3      All     5-8r
Spiritual Hammer        Cmbt     3      1       1r/lvl


THIRD LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Cure Blindness          Both     T      1       -
Cure Disease            Camp     T      1       -
Dispel Magic            Both     6      3x3s    -
Prayer                  Both     0      All     1r/lvl
Remove Curse            Both     T      1       -


FOURTH LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Cure Serious Wounds     Both     T      1       -
Neutralize Poison       Both     T      1       -
Protection from
  Evil 10' Radius       Both     T      2dia    1t/lvl
Sticks to Snakes        Cmbt     3      1       2r/lvl


FIFTH LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Cure Critical Wounds    Both     T      1        -
Dispel Evil             Cmbt     T      1        1t/lvl
Flame Strike            Cmbt     6      1        -
Raise Dead              Camp     3      1        -


SIXTH LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Blade Barrier           Cmbt     3    Special   3t/lcl
Heal                    Both     T      1       -


SEVENTH LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Resurrection            Camp     T      1       -
Restoration             Camp     T      1       -


FIRST LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
For High-Level Rangers

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Detect Magic            Both     0      1       12r
Entagle                 Cmbt     8      4dia    1t
Faerie Fire             Cmbt     8      8dia    4r/lvl
Invisibility to Animals Both     T      1       1t+1r/lvl


SECOND LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
For High-Level Rangers

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Barkskin                Both     T      1       4r+1r/lvl
Charm Person/Mammal     Cmbt     8      1       Special
Cure Light Wounds       Both     T      1       -


THIRD LEVEL DRUID SPELLS
For High-Level Rangers

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration
---------------------------------------------------------
Cure Disease            Camp     T      1       -
Hold Animal             Cmbt     8      1-4     2r/lvl
Neutralize Poison       Both     T      1       -
Protection from Fire    Both     T      1       Special


FIRST LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Burning Hands           Cmbt     T      3s      -         Both
Charm Person            Cmbt     12     1       -         Both
Detect Magic            Both     6      1       2r/lvl    Both
Enlarge                 Both   .5/lvl   1       1t/lvl    Both
Reduce                  Both   .5/lvl   1       -         Both
Friends                 Cmbt     0      All     1r/lvl    Both
Magic Missile           Cmbt    6+lvl   1       -         Both
Protection from Evil    Both     T      1       2r/lvl    Both
Read Magic              Camp     0      1       2r/lvl    Both
Shield                  Cmbt     0      1       5r/lvl    Both
Shocking Grasp          Cmbt     T      1       -         Both
Sleep                   Cmbt    3+lvl  1-16     5r/lvl    Both


SECOND LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Detect Invisibility     Both   1/lvl    1       5r/lvl    Both
Invisibility            Both     T      1       Special   Red
Knock                   Camp     6     1s/lvl   -         Red
Mirror Image            Both     0      1       2r/lvl    Red
Ray of Enfeeblement     Cmbt 1+.25/lvl  1       1r/lvl    White
Stinking Cloud          Cmbt     3     2x2s     1r/lvl    Both
Strength                Both     T      1       6t/lvl    Red


THIRD LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Blink                   Both     0      1       1r/lvl    Red
Dispel Magic            Both     12    3x3s      -        White
Fireball                Cmbt   10+lvl  5/7dia    -        Both
Haste                   Both     6     4x4s     3r+1/lvl  Red
Hold Person             Cmbt     12    1-4      2r/vl     White
Invisibility
  10' Radius            Both     T     2dia     Special   Red
Lightning Bolt          Cmbt    4+lvl  4,8       -        Both
Pretection from Evil
  10' Radius            Both     T     2dia     2r/lvl    White
Protection from
  Normal Missiles       Both     T      1       1t/lvl    White
Slow                    Cmbt    9+lvl  4x4s     3r+1/lvl  Red


FOURTH LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Bestow Curse            Cmbt     T      1       1t/lvl    White
Charm Monster           Cmbt     6      1       Special   White
Confusion               Cmbt     12    2-16     2r+1/lvl  White
Dimension Door          Cmbt     0      1        -        Red
Fear                    Cmbt     0     6x3c     1r/lvl    Red
Fire Shield(2 types)    Both     0      1       2r+1/lvl  Both
Fumble                  Cmbt    1/lvl   1       1r/lvl    White
Ice Storm(Dmg only)     Cmbt    1/lvl  4dia      -        Both
Minor Globe
  of Invulnerability    Both     0      1       1r/lvl    White
Remove Curse            Both     T      1        -        White



FIFTH LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Cloud Kill              Cmbt     1     3x3s     1r/lvl    White
Cone of Cold            Cmbt     0    .5/lvl c  -         Both
Feeblemind              Cmbt    1/lvl   1       -         White
Fire Touch              Both     T     Special  1r/lvl    Red
Hold Monster            Cmbt   .5/lvl   1-4     1r/lvl    White
Iron Skin               Both     0     Special  1r/lvl    Red



SIXTH LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Death Spell             Cmbt     1     .5/lvl   -         Both
Disintegrate            Cmbt   .5/lvl  Special  -         Red
Flesh to Stone          Cmbt    1/lvl   1       -         Red
Globe of
  Invulnerability       Both     0      1       1r/lvl    White
Stone to Flesh          Both    1/lvl   1       -         Red



SEVENTH LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Delayed Blast
  Fire Ball             Cmbt  10+1/lvl 5/7dia   Special   Both
Mass Invisibility       Both    1/lvl  Special  Special   Red
Power Word, Stun        Cmbt   .5/lvl   1       Special   Both


EIGHTH LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Mass Charm              Cmbt   .5/lvl Special   Special   White
Mind Blank              Both     3      1       1 day     White
Otto's Irresistable
  Dance                 Cmbt     T      1       2-5r      White
Power Word, Blind       Cmbt   .5/lvl  3dia     Special   Both


NINTH LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

Spell Name              When    Rng    Area    Duration   Robe
----------------------------------------------------------------
Meteor Swarm            Cmbt  4+1/lvl Special   -         Both
Monster Summoning       Cmbt     0    Special   Special   Both
Power Word, Kill        Cmbt  .25/lvl Special   -         Both


LEVEL ADVANCEMENT TABLES

The following charts show the amount of experience a character must
earn in order to gain a level in his character class.  The charts also
list the number of spells that a character can have memorized at one
time.  Fighters and Thieves can never memorize spells.

Remember that all experience earned by a non-human, multiple-class
character is divided by the number of classes the character has.  The
experience is divided even after the character has reached his maximum
level in a particular class.


CLERIC OF GOOD

Level       Experience        Dice
------------------------------------
 1          2,000-3,999        2d8
 2          4,000-7,499        3d8
 3          7,500-15,249       4d8
 4          15,250-24,999      5d8
 5          25,000-39,999      6d8
 6          40,000-89,999      7d8
 7          90,000-159,999     8d8
 8          160,000-249,999    9d8

Each level after 8th requires 250,000 experience points and the
character gains 1 hit point.


NUMBER OF CLERICAL SPELLS PER LEVEL

Level       1   2   3   4   5   6   7
---------------------------------------
 1          1   -   -   -   -   -   -
 2          2   -   -   -   -   -   -
 3          2   1   -   -   -   -   -
 4          2   2   -   -   -   -   -
 5          3   3   1   -   -   -   -
 6          3   3   2   -   -   -   -
 7          3   3   2   1   -   -   -
 8          3   3   3   2   -   -   -
 9          4   4   3   2   1   -   -
10          4   4   3   3   2   -   -
11          5   4   4   3   2   1(1)-
12          6   5   5   3   2   2   -
13          6   6   6   4   2   2   -
14          6   6   6   5   3   2   -
15          7   7   7   5   4   2   -
16          7   7   7   6   5   3   1(2)
17          8   8   8   6   5   3   1
18          8   8   8   7   6   4   2
19          9   9   9   7   6   4   2
20          9   9   9   8   7   5   2
21          9   9   9   9   8   6   2
22          9   9   9   9   9   6   3
23          9   9   9   9   9   7   3
24          9   9   9   9   9   8   3
25          9   9   9   9   9   8   4
26          9   9   9   9   9   9   4
27          9   9   9   9   9   9   5
28          9   9   9   9   9   9   6
29          9   9   9   9   9   9   7

   1 - Usable only with 17+ wisdom.
   2 - Usable only with 18+ wisdom.


CLERIC OF NEUTRALITY

Level       Experience        Dice
------------------------------------
 1          1,500-2,999        1d8
 2          3,000-5,999        2d8
 3          6,000-12,999       3d8
 4          13,000-27,999      4d8
 5          27,500-54,999      5d8
 6          55,000-109,999     6d8
 7          110,000-224,999    7d8
 8          225,000-449,999    8d8
 9          450,000-674,999    9d8

Each level after 9th requires 225,000 experience points and the
character gains 1 hit point.



NUMBER OF CLERICAL SPELLS PER LEVEL

Level       1   2   3   4   5   6   7
---------------------------------------
 1          2   -   -   -   -   -   -
 2          2   1   -   -   -   -   -
 3          2   2   1   -   -   -   -
 4          4   2   2   -   -   -   -
 5          4   3   2   -   -   -   -
 6          4   3   2   1   -   -   -
 7          4   4   3   1   -   -   -
 8          4   4   3   2   -   -   -
 9          5   4   3   2   1   -   -
10          5   4   3   3   2   -   -
11          5   5   3   3   2   1(1)-
12          5   5   4   4   3   2   1(2)
13          6   5   5   4   3   2   1
14          6   6   6   6   4   2   1
15          6   6   6   6   4   3   1
16          6   6   6   6   5   4   1
17          7   6   6   6   5   4   2
18          7   6   6   6   5   4   3
19          7   7   6   6   5   5   3
20          7   7   6   7   6   5   3
21          8   7   7   7   6   5   4
22          8   8   7   7   7   5   4
23          8   8   7   7   7   6   4
24          8   8   7   7   7   7   4
25          8   8   8   8   7   7   5
26          8   8   8   8   8   8   5
27          8   8   8   8   8   8   6
28          8   8   8   8   8   8   7
29          8   8   8   8   8   8   8

   1 - Usable only with 17+ wisdom.
   2 - Usable only with 18+ wisdom


CLERIC'S BONUS SPELLS

Wisdom      1   2   3   4
---------------------------
 9-12       -   -   -   -
 13         1   -   -   -
 14         2   -   -   -
 15         2   1   -   -
 16         2   2   -   -
 17         2   2   1   -
 18         2   2   1   1

Note that these bonus spells are only available when the cleric is
entitled to spells of the applicable level.  Thus a 12th level cleric
with a Wisdom of 18 can memorize the following spells:


                              Number of Spells
                          1   2   3   4   5   6   7
-----------------------------------------------------
12th level Cleric
of Good with 18 Wisdom    8   7   6   4   2   2   -


FIGHTER

Level       Experience         Hit Dice
----------------------------------------_
 1          0-2,000             1d10
 2          2,001-4,000         2d10
 3          4,001-8,000         3d10
 4          8,001-18,000        4d10
 5          18,001-35,000       5d10
 6          35,001-70,000       6d10
 7          70,001-125,000      7d10
 8          125,001-250,000     8d10
 9          250,001-500,000     9d10

Each level after 9th requires 250,000 experience points, and the
character gains 3 hit points.


THIEF

Level       Experience         Hit Dice
----------------------------------------
  1         0-1,250             1d6
  2         1,251-2,500         2d6
  3         2,501-5,000         3d6
  4         5,001-10,000        4d6
  5         10,001-20,000       5d6
  6         20,001-42,500       6d6
  7         42,501-70,000       7d6
  8         70,001-110,000      8d6
  9         110,000-160,000     9d6
 10         160,001-220,000     10d6

Each level after 10th requires 220,000 experience points and the
character gains 2 hit points.


                                               Number of
PALADIN                                      Clerical Spells

Level   Experience             Hit Dice       1   2   3   4
------------------------------------------------------------
  1     0-2,750                 1d10          -   -   -   -
  2     2,751-5,500             2d10          -   -   -   -
  3     5,501-12,000            3d10          -   -   -   -
  4     12,001-24,000           4d10          -   -   -   -
  5     24,001-45,000           5d10          -   -   -   -
  6     45,001-95,000           6d10          -   -   -   -
  7     95,001-175,000          7d10          -   -   -   -
  8     175,001-350,000         8d10          -   -   -   -
  9     350,001-700,000         9d10          1   -   -   -
 10     700,001-1,050,000       9d10+3        2   -   -   -
 11     1,050,001-1,400,000     9d10+6        2   1   -   -
 12     1,400,001-1,750,000     9d10+9        2   2   -   -
 13     1,750,001-2,100,000     9d10+12       2   2   1   -
 14     2,100,001-2,450,000     9d10+15       3   2   1   -
 15     2,450,001-2,800,000     9d10+18       3   2   1   1
 16     2,800,001-3,150,000     9d10+21       3   3   1   1
 17     3,150,001-3,500,000     9d10+24       3   3   2   1
 18     3,500,001-3,850,000     9d10+27       3   3   3   1
 19     3,850,001-4,200,000     9d10+30       3   3   3   2
 20     4,200,001-4,550,000     9d10+33       3   3   3   3

Each level after 20th requires 350,000 experience points and the
character gains 3 hit points.


                                         Number of Spells Per Level
RANGER                                        Druid    Magic-User

Level   Experience            Hit Dice       1  2  3     1  2
---------------------------------------------------------------
 1      0-2,250                2d8           -  -  -     -  -
 2      2,251-4,500            3d8           -  -  -     -  -
 3      4,501-10,000           4d8           -  -  -     -  -
 4      10,001-20,000          5d8           -  -  -     -  -
 5      20,001-40,000          6d8           -  -  -     -  -
 6      40,001-90,000          7d8           -  -  -     -  -
 7      90,001-150,000         8d8           -  -  -     -  -
 8      150,001-225,000        9d8           1  -  -     -  -
 9      225,001-325,000        10d8          1  -  -     1  -
 10     325,001-650,000        11d8          2  -  -     1  -
 11     650,001-975,000        11d8+2        2  -  -     2  -
 12     975,001-1,300,000      11d8+4        2  1  -     2  -
 13     1,300,001-1,625,000    11d8+6        2  1  -     2  1
 14     1,625,001-1,950,000    11d8+8        2  2  -     2  1
 15     1,950,001-2,275,000    11d8+10       2  2  -     2  2
 16     2,275,001-2,600,000    11d8+12       2  2  1     2  2
 17     2,600,001-2,925,000    11d8+14       2  2  2     2  2

Each level after 17th requires 325,000 experience points and the
character gains 2 hit points.


KNIGHT OF THE CROWN

Level   Experience            Hit Dice
---------------------------------------
 1      2,500-4,999            2d10
 2      5,000-9,999            3d10
 3      10,000-18,499          4d10
 4      18,500-36,999          5d10
 5      37,000-84,999          6d10
 6      85,000-139,999         7d10
 7      140,000-219,999        8d10
 8      220,000-299,999        9d10
 9      300,000-599,999        10d10
 10     600,000-899,999        10d10+2
 11     900,000-1,199,999      10d10+4
 12     1,200,000-1,499,999    10d10+6
 13     1,500,000-1,799,999    10d10+8
 14     1,800,000-2,099,999    10d10+10
 15     2,100,000-2,399,999    10d10+12
 16     2,400,000-2,699,999    10d10+14
 17     2,700,000-2,999,999    10d10+16
 18     3,000,000+             10d10+18


KNIGHT OF THE SWORD                        Number of Clerical Spells
                                                   Per Level
Level   Experience            Hit Dice     1   2   3   4   5   6   7
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 3      12,000-23,999          4d10        -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 4      24,000-44,999          5d10        -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 5      45,000-94,999          6d10        -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 6      95,000-174,999         7d10        1   -   -   -   -   -   -
 7      175,000-349,999        8d10        2   -   -   -   -   -   -
 8      350,000-699,999        9d10        2   1   -   -   -   -   -
 9      700,000-1,049,999      10d10       3   2   -   -   -   -   -
 10     1,050,000-1,399,999    10d10+2     4   2   -   -   -   -   -
 11     1,400,000-1,749,999    10d10+4     4   2   1   -   -   -   -
 12     1,750,000-2,099,999    10d10+6     5   3   1   1   -   -   -
 13     2,100,000-2,449,999    10d10+8     6   4   1   1   1   -   -
 14     2,450,000-2,799,999    10d10+10    7   5   2   1   1   1   -
 15     2,800,000-3,149,999    10d10+12    8   6   3   2   1   1   1
 16     3,150,000-3,499,999    10d10+14    9   7   3   2   2   1   1
 17     3,500,000-3,749,999    10d10+16    9   8   4   3   3   2   1
 18     4,850,000+             10d10+18    9   9   5   4   3   2   1


KNIGHT OF THE ROSE                         Number of Clerical Spells
                                                   Per Level
Level   Experience            Hit Dice     1   2   3   4   5   6   7
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 4      27,000-59,999          5d10        -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 5      60,000-124,999         6d10        -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 6      125,000-199,999        7d10        1   -   -   -   -   -   -
 7      200,000-424,999        8d10        2   -   -   -   -   -   -
 8      425,000-799,999        9d10        2   1   -   -   -   -   -
 9      800,000-1,499,999      10d10       3   2   -   -   -   -   -
 10     1,500,000-1,999,999    10d10+2     4   2   -   -   -   -   -
 11     2,000,000-2,499,999    10d10+4     4   2   1   -   -   -   -
 12     2,500,000-2,999,999    10d10+6     5   3   1   1   -   -   -
 13     3,000,000-3,499,999    10d10+8     6   4   1   1   1   -   -
 14     3,500,000-3,999,999    10d10+10    7   5   2   1   1   1   -
 15     4,000,000-4,499,999    10d10+12    8   6   3   2   1   1   1
 16     4,500,000-4,999,999    10d10+14    9   7   3   2   2   1   1
 17     5,000,000-5,499,999    10d10+16    9   8   4   3   3   2   1
 18     5,500,000-5,999,999    10d10+18    9   9   5   4   3   2   1

Each level after 18th requires 500,000 experience points and the
character gains 2 hit points.


WHITE ROBE MAGE

Level    Experience            Hit Dice
----------------------------------------
 1       2,500-4,999           1d4
 2       5,000-9,999           2d4
 3       10,000-19,999         3d4
 4       20,000-37,999         4d4
 5       38,999-54,999         5d4
 6       55,000-99,999         6d4
 7       100,000-199,999       7d4
 8       200,000-399,999       8d4
 9       400,000-599,999       9d4
 10      600,000-799,999       10d4
 11      800,000-999,999       11d4

Each level after 11th requires 250,000 experience points and the
character gains 1 hit point.


SPELLS PER LEVEL FOR WHITE ROBE MAGES

Level   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9
-------------------------------------------
 1      1   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 2      2   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 3      2   1   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 4      3   2   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 5      4   2   1   -   -   -   -   -   -
 6      4   2   2   -   -   -   -   -   -
 7      4   3   2   1   -   -   -   -   -
 8      4   3   3   2   -   -   -   -   -
 9      4   3   3   2   1(1)-   -   -   -
 10     4   4   3   2   2   1(2)-   -   -
 11     4   4   4   3   3   2   1(3)-   -
 12     4   4   4   4   4   3   2   1(4)-
 13     5   5   5   4   4   3   2   1   -
 14     5   5   5   4   4   3   2   1   -
 15     5   5   5   5   5   3   2   2   1(5)
 16     5   5   5   5   5   4   2   2   1
 17     5   5   5   5   5   4   3   3   2
 18     5   5   5   5   5   4   3   3   3
 19     5   5   5   5   5   5   3   3   3
 20     5   5   5   5   5   5   4   3   3
 21     5   5   5   5   5   5   4   4   3
 22     5   5   5   5   5   5   5   4   3
 23     5   5   5   5   5   5   5   5   3
 24     5   5   5   5   5   5   5   5   4
 25     5   5   5   5   5   5   5   5   5
 26     6   6   6   6   5   5   5   5   5
 27     6   6   6   6   6   6   6   5   5
 28     6   6   6   6   6   6   6   6   6
 29     7   7   7   7   6   6   6   6   6

 1 - Usable only with 10+ intelligence.
 2 - Usable only with 12+ intelligence.
 3 - Usable only with 14+ intelligence.
 4 - Usable only with 16+ intelligence.
 5 - Usable only with 18+ intelligence.


RED ROBE MAGE

Level    Experience            Hit Dice
----------------------------------------
 1       2,500-4,999           1d4
 2       5,000-9,999           2d4
 3       10,000-17,999         3d4
 4       18,000-35,999         4d4
 5       36,000-49,999         5d4
 6       50,000-89,999         6d4
 7       90,000-179,999        7d4
 8       180,000-349,999       8d4
 9       350,000-499,999       9d4
 10      500,000-699,999       10d4
 11      700,000-899,999       11d4

Each level after 11th requires 200,000 experience points and the
character gains 1 hit point.



SPELLS PER LEVEL FOR RED ROBE MAGES

Level   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9
-------------------------------------------
 1      1   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 2      2   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 3      2   1   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
 4      3   2   1   -   -   -   -   -   -
 5      4   3   1   -   -   -   -   -   -
 6      4   3   2   -   -   -   -   -   -
 7      4   3   2   1   -   -   -   -   -
 8      4   3   3   2   -   -   -   -   -
 9      4   3   3   2   1(1)-   -   -   -
 10     5   4   3   2   2   1(2)-   -   -
 11     5   4   4   3   3   2   -   -   -
 12     5   4   4   4   4   2   1(3)-   -
 13     5   5   5   4   4   2   1   1(4)-
 14     5   5   5   4   4   2   2   1   -
 15     5   5   5   4   5   2   2   1   1(5)
 16     6   5   5   5   5   3   2   1   1
 17     6   5   5   5   5   3   3   2   1
 18     6   6   5   5   5   3   3   2   2
 19     6   6   5   5   5   3   3   3   2
 20     6   6   5   5   5   4   3   3   2
 21     6   6   5   5   5   4   4   3   2
 22     6   6   5   5   5   4   4   4   2
 23     6   6   6   5   5   5   4   4   2
 24     7   6   6   5   5   5   5   4   2
 25     7   7   6   6   5   5   5   4   2
 26     7   7   6   6   6   6   5   4   3
 27     7   7   6   6   6   6   5   5   4
 28     8   7   7   6   6   6   6   5   5
 29     8   8   8   7   6   6   6   6   5

 1 - Usable only with 10+ intelligence.
 2 - Usable only with 12+ intelligence.
 3 - Usable only with 14+ intelligence.
 4 - Usable only with 16+ intelligence.
 5 - Usable only with 18+ intelligence.

